## 1 - One
> Prime. the Monad. Names for the number 1: [Hoa](12), [Eheyeh](21), [Yekhidah](37), [Aur Penemee](397), [Arik Anpin](422), [Kether](620), [Nequdah Rashunah](721), 559, [Resha Chavvurah](736), [Tayth Zal](837)

> *I am a center of expression for the Primal Will to Good which eternally creates and sustains the Universe.* [Pattern on the Trestleboard]

> *"The union of higher reality, the upper Yod, with the lower
reality, the lower Yod, by means of the connecting Vav, of Torah,
is the ultimate secret of the letter Aleph."* [The Alef-Beit, Rabbi
Ginsburgh] See [214](214) (רוח), [37](37), [111](111) [אלף].

> The number 1 stands for definite quantity, in contrast to the lack of definition symbolized by [0](0). 1 is the sign of the aspect of unity of which Eliphas Levi says: Unity may be conceived as relative, manifested, possessing duality, the beginning of numerical sequence. 1 represents the initial impulse of movement, the outset of a cycle of activity, the beginning of some phase of manifested power. Synonyms for beginning, prelude, opening, threshold, foundation, beginning is introduction. To introduce is to lead in, to insert; to put or thrust in. Thus the phallic meanings of 1 are inseparable from fundamental ideas which humanity associates with beginning.

---

### Beginning

- first in the numeral series, because 0 stands for that which precedes manifestation and is therefore not included in any series
- inception, initiative
- the Primal Will
- selection
- unity
- singleness
- individuality
- attention
- one-pointedness
- concentration
- the definite or manifest, as contrasted with the indefinable Source
- self-consciousness

---

### [Kether](620) (כתר - 620)
The First Sephirah: "Crown". See [Eheyeh](21), [Hoa](12), [Yekhidah](37)

---

### [The First Path](/keys/KThR)
> *"The First path (Kether, the first Sephirah) is called the [Admirable or Wonderful Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.MVPLH), the Supreme Crown. It is the light of the Primordial Intelligence, and this is the Primary Glory. Among all created beings, none may attain to its essential reality."* [The Book of Formation]. see [157](157), [507](507)

> *"It is the Admirable Intelligence, without beginning, without end, imparting understanding; itself beyond comprehension."* [Meditations of the Paths of Wisdom].

---

### [Key 1: The Magician](/keys/B)

- [beth](412) (ב): house
- Self-Consciousness
- Transparent Intelligence
- Mercury
- Attention, Life and Death

---

### [Aleph](/keys/A) - א

> Ox or Bull. Oxen are symbols of the taming of natural forces. Thus the letter Aleph is a symbol of creative energy, and of the vital principles of living creatures. This vital principle comes to us in physical form as the radiant energy from the sun. Its association with [Key 0: The Fool](0), Aleph is the special sign for air and breath. The noun "fool" is derived from the Latin follis, meaning "bag of wind."

> Oxen were the motive-power in the early civilizations where the alphabet of occultism was invented. They were used to plow fields, thresh grain, and carry heavy burdens. Agriculture is the basis of civilization, hence the ox represents the power at work in every activity whereby man makes use of the forces surrounding him, and and adapts them to the realization of his purposes. Cultural power and superconsciousness. The Life-Power is the force behind growh and development.

The activity represented by Aleph is one whereby the one reflects itself to itself, and so produces the number 2. Wisdom (Chokmah) is the Life-power's perception of what it is, in itself.

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"א. First character of the alphabet in nearly all know idioms. As symbolic image it represents universal man, mankind, the ruling being of the earth. In its hieroglyphic acceptation, it characterizes unity, the central point, the abstract principle of a thing. As sign, it expresses power, stability, continuity. Some grammarians make it express a kind of superlative as in Arabic; but this is only a result of its power as sign. On some rare occasions it takes the place of the emphatic article Heh either at the beginning or at the end of the words. The rabbis use it as a sort of article. It is often added at the head of words as redundant vowel, to make them more sonorous and to add to their expression."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.287]

See [Key 0: The Fool](0), [The Eleventh Path](11), [Aleph (letter-name)](111).

## Greek

### [Alpha](/greek?word=a) (Gr) - α
> Signifies, like the Hebrew Aleph, the beginning or a cycle of activity. It was one of the primary figures of the Gnostic mystery of Alpha and Omega, and was represented by the Tetrahedron, which it resembled in its primitive form. see [40](40), [200](200), [800](800), [811](811). [Bond and Lea: Investigation of the Cabala, page 83.]

---

### See Also

- [111](111)
- [620](620)
