## 2 - Two

> *Through me its unfailing Wisdom takes form in thought and word.* [Pattern on the Trestleboard]

Prime. The Duad or Dyad. Names for number 2: [Jah - 15](15), [Abel - 37](37), [Chokmah - 73](73).

### Duplication

- repetition
- Wisdom and Science
- opposition
- polarity
- antithesis
- succession
- sequence
- continuation
- diffusion
- separation
- radiation
- secondariness
- subordination
- dependence
- subconsciousness

### [The Second Path](/keys/ChKMH)
> *The Second Path (Chokmah, the second Sephirah) is called the [Illuminating Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.MZHIR). It is the Crown of Creation, and the Splendor of Unity, to which it the most nearly approximate. In the mouths of the Masters of the Qabalah it is called the Second Glory.* [The Book of Formation]. see [262](262), [612](612)

> *"It is the Illuminating Intelligence, the crown of creation, the splendor of the supreme unity."* [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom]

The Second Sephirah. חכמה [Chokmah](/keys/ChkMH) Wisdom. [Ab](3), Father. [Masloth](436), The Sphere of the Zodiac, or Sphere of Fixed Stars. The Seat of [Chaiah](23), the universal life-force. See [73](73)

### [Key 2: High Priestess](/keys/G) - ג

- [gimel](73): camel (ג)
- Subconsciousness
- [Uniting Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.MNHIG.HAChDVTh)
- Moon
- Memory, Peace and Strife
- Blue, D# (G#)

### [Beth](/keys/B) - ב
> "house". Refers to whatever form may be termed a dwelling-place for Spirit, and the form particular referred to is human personality. "The Father who dwells in me, he does the works."

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"ב. this character, as consonant, belongs to the labial sound. As symbolic image it represents the mouth of man, his dwelling, his interior. As grammatical sign, it is the paternal and virile sign, that of interior and active action. In Hebrew, it is the integral and indicative article expressing in nouns or actions... almost the same movement as the extractive article Mem, but with more force and without any extraction or division of parts."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.300-301](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/n321/mode/2up)]

> Considered as the second aspect of unity, the "One possessing duality." Many of the meanings of the number 2 are related to the High Priestess (See [73](73), [106](106), [412](412)). It was because of the powers of the number 2 that 2 was selected by God to begin creation [Zohar].

> *"Beth is drawn with two little points--one pointing above, the other pointing behind and toward the right. In this way when someone asks the Beth "Who made you?," it points above, and if they ask, What is his name?," it points toward the Aleph, as if to say, "One is his name."* [The Book of Letters, Rabbi Kushner]

> *"Why does the Torah begin with the letter Beth, which corresponds to the number 2? Because our Sages teach that God created not one world, but two. There is עולם הזה, [this world](/keys/OVLM.HZH), and עולם הבא, [the world to come](/keys/OVLM.HBA). Our life must always be lived with the awareness that the grave is not our end, but merly the second beginning."* [The Secrets of the Hebrew Words, Rabbi Blech].

> *"As a preposition beth means: in, at; among, with, by means of, through, against. It suggests movement from a point without to a point within. The Hieroglyph for Beth has been lost, as the square letters employed today are of comparative recent invention. Perhaps the first idea that will be suggested to most people be all arrow-head is sharpness. Then since every Hebrew letter stands for a kind of consciousness, Beth must be a sign of mental acuteness, or penetration. It represents the sort of intelligence that manifest itself in quick perception, accurate observation, keen discernment, sagacity, and the like. An arrowhead is a point, denoting position. In logical 'position' means affirmation or assertion, As when we speak of 'the proof of a position,' implying order-is derived. Beth, then represents affirmative mental activity, limiting its operation to a definite locality, and exercising itself in establishing order. Hence Beth suggest initiative, direction, control, the concentration of energy in a particular field, and its specialization in definite forms. This idea of concentration is inseparable from the original form of the letter. The word 'concentrate' is derived from the greek Kentron, an arrow point. The same Greek work also means the point around which a circle is inscribed, which shows that it implies the very notions of definite locality, order, that we have been considering. The implicates of the letter name are closely related to those connected with the hieroglyphic. Beth means "house" suggesting inclosure, limitation, to a special field, definite locality, and so on. As a House is the dwelling of its owner, so is the kind of mental action related to Beth the abode of spirit, because it centers the cosmic mind in a particular, local expression."* [The Secret Doctrine of the Tarot, in the Word, June 1916, pp. 79-80].

> The fundamental meanings are related primarily to the Magician and 1, considered as the second aspect of unity. There is no partition, separation, or distance between the aspects of consciousness corresponding to 2 and 1 than those corresponding to 1 and 0. Self, sub and superconsciousness are simply 3 levels of one consciousness. Since 1 is half of 2, the number 2 is the reflection of the number 1, as 1/1. As the antithesis of 1, the number 2 represents what is secondary. It is next below the first in importance, but stands in relation to all numbers following ??? just as 1 stands for 2 or 0 for 1.

> As second in a series beginning with 1, 2 represents continuation, in the sense of carrying onward or extending the initial impulse symbolized by 1. 2 is therefore an emblem of prolongation, or lengthening in time or space. Hence, the number wisdom of Pythagoreans, the line is represented by 2 the point by 1. The number 2 stands for the non-ego, the inferior nature, the mysterious working power of the supreme spirit. It is the arithmetical symbol of result or effect; the moon, the reflection of sun; of memory; of intellect (Wisdom) and of radiant energy because it vibrates. Prakriti-the Great Womb or principal thing. It is female in relation to Kether.

> 2 is the symbol of duality, the symbol of the separation of the sexes, of space-time, etc. Any number with a numerical reduction of 2 has a characteristic of duality. The number 2 also concerns Wisdom. superstitious people say that 2 is the number of evil, which is not accurate. Duality is necessary for manifestation and consequently it is the first principle to allow for man's evolution.

> *Through me its unfailing Wisdom takes form, in thought and word* [Pattern on the Trestleboard].

> see [73](73), [37](37), [15](15) as well as numbers which reduce to 2: [29](29), [11](11), [38](38), [47](47), [56](56), [65](65), [74](74).

### [AA](/keys/AA) - אא
> An abbreviation for אריך אנפין, [Arik Anpin](/keys/ARIK.ANPIN), the Vast Countenance ([Kether](/keys/KThR)). see [422](422), [620](620).

### [B](/keys/B) - ב
> An abbreviation of בן, [Ben](/keys/BN) ([52](52)) or בר ([202](202)). meaning "son of." Extremely rare use.

As a prefix, B means "in".

### See Also:

- [20](20)
- [200](200)
- Σ2 = [3](3)

