## 3 - Three

> (prime). Σ2 = 3. Names for the number 3: see [67](67), [42](42), [52](52), [265](265). Numbers which reduce to 3 see: [12](12), [21](21), [30](30), [39](39), [48](48), [57](57), [66](66), [75](75), [84](84), [93](93), [102](102), [111](111), [120](120), [138](138), [300](300).

> The response of the subconscious mental activity to the selfconscious impulse in the generation of mental images; hence, understanding.

> The union of the ideas of individuality (1) and repetition (2). 3 is the number of trinity, the 3 aspect of the invisible man's consciousness. 3 is the number of Creation: 1, through differentiation, gives 2 other elements. The number 3 concerns Intelligence.

> The mystic number of Chokmah. It manifests itself in mental life as creative imagination. As 1+2 is the union of the ideas of individuality (1) and repetition (2). The repetition of the unit (1) through the agency of the duad (2) is reproduction. Three is the number of production, formation, organization, propagation, elaboration.

> Three is the number of the Sephirah [Binah](/keys/BINH), "Mother". *[The Gematria Notebooks of Paul Foster Case]*

> *Filled with Understanding of its perfect law, I am guided, moment by moment, along the path of liberation.* [Pattern on the Trestleboard]

### [The Third Path](/keys/BINH) - 
> *The third path (Binah, the third Sephirah) is called the [Sanctifying Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.HQVDSh). it is the Foundation of Primordial Wisdom, termed Firmness of Faith, and Root of thy Mother. It is the Mother of Faith for the power of Faith emanates from it.* [The Book of Formation]. see [415](415), [765](765).

> *"It is the Sanctifying Intelligence the foundation of primordial wisdom and the creator of faith."* [Meditations of the Paths of Wisdom]

### [Key 3: The Empress](/keys/D) -

- [daleth](/keys/D): door (ד)
- Creative Imagination
- Luminous Intelligence
- Venus
- Wisdom and Folly

### Multiplication

- increase
- growth
- augmentation
- expansion
- amplification
- extension
- productiveness
- fecundity
- generation
- the response of subconscious mental activity to self-conscious impulse in the generation of mental images
- hence, Understanding

### [Gimel](/keys/G) - ג
> Camel. The number of the third Hebrew letter, [Key 2](2) the High Priestess. Represents universal Memory, through the subconscious substance aspect (Water). The uniting Intelligence, linking the universal self in Kether and the Ego in Tiphareth, on the Tree of Life. It is the bond between all creating beings and like the camel, is a symbol of travel, communication and change. The direction Below on the Cube of Space. A key to the alchemical mystery of the First Matter-the Virgin Substance "whose purity naught can defile" [Book of Tokens, Gimel]. see [237](237), [882](882), [13](13).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"ג. גה. This character as consonant, belongs to the guttural sound. The one by which I translate it, is quite a modern invention and responds to it rather imperfectly. Plutarch tells us that a certain Carvilius who, having opened a school at Rome, first invented or introduced the letter G, to distinguish the double sound of the C. As symbolic image the Hebraic Gimel indicates the throat of man, any conduit, any canal, any deep hollow object. As grammatical sign, it expresses organic development and produces all ideas origination from the corporeal organs and from their action."*

> *"The Gimel is composed of a Vav, representing an erect man, with a lower Yod, a foot in motion...Our sages teach that the Gimel symbolizes a rich man running after a poor man, the Daleth, to give him charity."* [The Alef Beit, Rabbi Ginsburgh].

> Gimel and Daleth were not used for creation because Gimel signifies beneficence, and Daleth poverty, which maintained each other" (Zohar 1, page 12).

> Gimel is a modified form of Yod. Thus the two parts of the letter hint at a concealed numeral value of [16](16), since Vav is [6](6) and Yod is [10](10). Among Hebrew words having the value of 16 are: אזוב, Hyssop, signifying purgation or purification; גבוה elevated, exalted, High; היא, She; and זוג, like equal to. The Uniting Intelligence is the most important means of purification. It links personal consciousness to the Highest plane of being. It is the wisdom personified in Proverbs as a woman. Its full exercise enables us to realize the identity of the Self in man with universal being. "The Earliest sign for the letter Gimel was probably a conventionalized picture of a bow. As a bow is used for shooting arrows, the first idea it suggests is propulsive force.

> Furthermore, since we have learned that the letter Beth was originally in the form of an arrowhead, it becomes evident that Gimel, the bow, as the propulsive force behind the arrow, stands for something that incites the objective mind, represented by Beth, to express itself in concentrated attention... Thus, in a sense, the bow is derived from the arrow; and this makes it an emblem of secondary existence; evolution, and the like. Again, the bow, like the crescent, cup, sistrum, wheatear, oval, is related to the hieroglyphic as well as to the letter-name. Relaxed and unstrung, the bow is an emblem of peace; tense and strung, it signifies war." [The Secret of the Doctrine of the Tarot in the Word, July 1916, page 161, 163].

Camel. See [73](73), [The Thirteenth Path](13)

### [Ab](/keys/AB) - אב
> Father. A name for number 2 and Chokmah. By notariqon אב stands for the 2 words [Aima-Ben](/keys/AIMA-BN). Mother (Binah) and Son (Tiphareth). In the Father these potencies are latent and concealed. The essential reality, the cause of existence. Also the 11th Hebrew month, July-August, corresponding roughly to the period when the sun is in Leo. This month is not mentioned in scripture. see [23](23), [73](73).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"אב. The potential sign united to that of interior activity produces a root whence come all ideas of productive cause, efficient will, determining movement, generative force. In may ancient idioms and particularly in the Persian [word] this root is applied especially to the aqueous element as principle of universal fructification.*

> *"אב. All ideas of paternity. Desire to have: a father: fruit. In reflecting upon these different significations, which appear at first incongruous, one will perceive that they come from one another and are produced mutually."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.287]

### [baw](/keys/BA) - בא
> becoming, future. From this correspondence between Ab and Baw, Ab, the Father, is the cause of existence, and therefore antecedent to what is now part of our present experience, the life force named Ab is also the essential reality which is to find manifestation in every event and condition which, to our limited time-sense, appears to be in the future. Actually, the Eternal is beyond the limitations of past, present and future, it is the eternal NOW.

### See Also

- [67](67)
- [73](73)
- Σ3 = [6](6)
