## 6 - Six
> (2x3). Σ3 = 6. The 1st [Perfect Number](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Perfect_number). Names for the number 6: see [Adam (45)](45), [Ben (52)](52), [80](80), 311, [Tiphareth (1081)](1081), [548](548), [666](666). Six symbolizes universal forces, like light, heat and electromagnetism. The number concerns beauty, harmony, symbolizing the union of the two worlds. The number of balance which contains two trinities: 3 + 3. 15 is the first number with a numerical reduction to 6. Note that 15=5+5+5 or 3 times the number of man. At level 6 man can contact his higher trinity.

> *In all things, great and small, I see the Beauty of the Divine Expression.* [Pattern on the Trestleboard]

---

### Reciprocation

- intechange
- correlation
- response
- coordination
- cooperation
- correspondence
- harmony
- concord
- equilibration
- symmetry
- Beauty

---

### [The Sixth Path](/keys/ThPARTh) - תפארת
> *The sixth path ([Tiphareth](/keys/ThPARTh), the sixth Sephirah) is called the [Intelligence of Separative Influence](/keys/ShKL.ShPO.NBDL). It is so called because it gathers together the emanations of the archetypal influence and communicates them to all those blessed ones who are united to its essence.* [Book of Formation]. See [86](86), [450](450), [536](536), [886](886).

---

### [Key 6: The Lovers](/keys/Z) - ז

- zain: sword or weapon (ז)
- Discrimination
- [Disposing Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.HRGSh) (שכל הרגש) 
- Gemini
- Smell

---

### [Vav](/keys/V) - ו
Nail or Hook. Vav is used as the conjunction "and". See [12](12), [The Sixteenth Path](16). 

> *The Vav is a vertical line representing a pillar or a man standing upright ... pillars hold Creation together...* [Rabbi Ginsburgh, The Alef Beit]

> *This is the word of Vav: to join us all into a myriad of constellations each remaining different, each bound to the other.* [Rabbi Kushner, The Book of Letters]

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"[Vav](/keys/V), O, OU, IU. This character has two very distinct vocal acceptations, and a third as consonant. Following the first of these vocal acceptations, it represents the eye of man, and becomes the symbol light; following the second, it represents the ear, and becomes the symbol of sound, air, wind: As a consonant it is the emblem of water and in it, as I have already said, that image of the most profound, the most inconceivable mystery. The image of the knot which unites, or the point which separates nothingness and being. In its luminous vocal acceptation Vav, it is the sign of intellectual sense, the verbal sign par excellence.. in its ethereal verbal acceptation Vav, it is the universal convertible sign, which makes a thing pass from one nature to another; communicating on one side with sign of intellectual sense, which is only itself more elevated, and on the other, with that of material sense [Ayin](/keys/O), which is only itself more abased: It is finally, in its aqueous consonantal acceptation, the link of all things, the conjunctive sign. It is in this last acceptation that it is employed more particularly as article... The character Vav, except its proper name וו, does not begin any word of the Hebraic tongue, and consequently does not furnish any root. This important observation, corroborating all that I have said upon the nature of the Hebraic signs, proves the head of a root to nouns to modify them, or between them for the purpose of joining them, or in front of the verbal tense to change them. The Arabic Ethiopic, Syriac and Chaldaic, which are not so scrupulous and which the character Vav, at the head of a great number of words, prove by this that they stood the primitive idiom from which they descend, this idiom preserved by the Egyptian priest was delivered as I have said, to Moses who taught it to the Hebrews."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp. 334-335]

---

### [Gawg](/keys/GG) - גג
> roof, flat top of a house; the upper part of an altar; width, volume (geometry).

> Fabre D'Olivet writes: *"Every idea of elasticity; that which stretches and expands without being disunited. The Arabic word [xxx] contains the same idea of extension. גג or גוג the roof of a tent, that which extends to cover, to envelop."* [Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 311]

---

### [Brother GG](/keys/GG) - גג
> This word indicated by the initials G.G., designating the sixth person called by brother C.R. to aid in the founding of the Rosicrucian Order [Fama]. In certain esoteric societies, Yesod is represented by the altar. The top of the the altar is referred to as Tiphareth. see [80](80), [1081](1081).

> *Third in order of these second four Brethren is Brother G.G. His initials spell the Hebrew noun **גג**, Gawg, meaning "roof", so suggesting both shelter and secrecy. Thus, the doorkeeper of a Masonic lodge bears the significant name of "tiler", and to "tile" the lodge is to make sure that none are admitted save those having the right to enter. Hence, Brother G.G. represents the human virtue of prudence. He also represents the principle of secrecy, as necessary today as ever before, if genuine occultism is to be propagated successfully.... To give [secrets] to the unprepared is to violate the old alchemical maxim that before one uses the Philosopher's Stone to transmute metals, the metals must first be purified.... Thus, the Fama says Brother C.R. bound the Brethren to be not only faithful and diligent but secret also, and it speaks of the Brethren taking their knowledge into the world in order that it might be examined in secret by the learned. Similarly, in the ministry of Jesus, "Brethren GG" appears side by side with "Brother B". For although Jesus held the multitudes spellbound with his verbal moving pictures, He withheld from all but a tested few the subtler meanings of his brilliant, colorful discourses.* [True and Invisible (WeiserBooks), p94-95]

---

### [Gebeh](/keys/GBA) - גבא
> A reservoir, cistern; from a root meaning "to gather, to collect." Refers to the function of Tiphareth as a reservoir into which flow streams of influence from the Sephiroth above. See [60](60), [600](600), [42](42).

> *"The central unit (of a cube 3x3x3, containing [27](27) cubes of 1x1x1, the area of whose faces is 6) typifies the center of all manifestations, the abode where the God dwells-alone, isolated. This central unit is also the reservoir wherein are collected and unified all the diverse powers of manifestation. It is the secret place of the most high, typified by the altar-top whereon rested the שכינה [Shekhinah](/keys/ShKINH). It is that central reality concerning which all revelation is made, and of which all seers and sages sa y 'Lo, Behold!"* [PFC, The Flaming Cube, Light of the Chaldees, page ?]

---

### [bad](/keys/BD) - בד
> Isolation, separation, thing separated from; alone; empty talk, lies, vain boasting. All its variation apply to the negative aspect of Tiphareth. It also means twig of a tree, shoot staff, white linen and soothsayer; Rod; pole, limb of the body; cell (in skin), war, chatter; separable part of something; olive press.

> According to Fabre D'Olivet: *"בד is from the root אד, which characterizes every object distinct and alone, being contracted with the sign of interior activity, composes this root whence issue ideas of separation, isolation, solitude, individuality, particular existence. From the idea of separation comes that of opening: thence that of opening the mouth which is attached to this root in several idioms, and in consequence, that of chattering, babbling, jesting, boasting, lying, etc. The arabic [xxx] signifies literally middle, between. As a verb, this root characterized the action of dispersing."* [Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp 301-302]

---

### [heh, hah](/keys/HA) - הא
> Lo, to behold, to see (variant of הה), a window. As one of the letters of יהוה, when Tetragrammanton is thought of as operating in Yetzirah, the World of Formation. Yetzirah has a special relationship to Tiphareth and to 6 (see [315](315)).

> Fabre D'Olivet: *"Every evident, demonstrated and determined existence. Every demonstrative movement expressed in an abstract sense by the relations here, there; this, that. The arabic Lo expresses only an exclamation."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 327].

---

### [agab](/keys/AGB) - אגב
> Through, by means of. A proposition signifying an agency that applies to 6 and Tiphareth as the mediator between the higher aspects of the Life-power and those which are subordinate. Found in Rabbinical Books but not the Bible.

---

### [dab](/keys/DB) - דב
> a bear, she bear, Name of a constellation.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Abba](/greek?word=abba) - αββα
> The Greek transliteration of Hebrew אבא [Abba](/keys/ABA), Father. This spelling occurs often in later Hebrew. It refers to the essential unity of Tiphareth with Chokmah. Title of Chokmah. see [3](3), [4](4), [73](73).

---

### See Also

- Σ6 = [21](21)
- [60](60)
- [1081](1081)
