## 7 - Seven
> Prime. Names for the number 7: [Netzach](148), [525](525), [710](710). The number of vertebrae in the human neck. Numerical value for the symbol of Sulfur.

> *Living from that Will, supported by its unfailing wisdom and understanding, mine is the Victorious Life.* [Pattern on the Trestleboard]

> Seven relates to the diameter of the Archetypal World. The diameter is what determines the size of a circle. These words shed some light upon the Qabalistic conception of the characteristic or determining qualities of this plane of cosmic seed-thoughts, which corresponds to the element of FIRE. Seven express solemn intention. 7 = mastery, conquest, peace safety, security. Conquest is the result of carrying definite purpose into action. Peace follows conquest, and conquest itself leads to the establishment of equilibrium between two contending forces. ("Two contending forces and one reconciler between them"). Key 7 symbolizes a power which can establish harmony, can bring order out of chaos. It is a power of adaptation and adjustment. Also: Equilibrium (the result of equilibration; the concrete application of the laws of symmetry and reciprocation), poise, rest, art, victory.

> "Panteuchia", furnished with every kind of armor." was a pythagorean name for Gimel. The disposing intelligence.. is closely related to the uniting intelligence; and in the 6th Tarot key it is clearly shown that the woman is the means of union with the superconsciousness, or angel.


---

### Equilibrium

- the result of equilibration, the concrete application of the laws of symmetry and reciprocation.
- mastery
- poise
- rest
- conquest
- peace
- safety
- security
- art
- Victory

---

### [The Seventh Path](/keys/NTzCh) - נצח
> *The seventh path ([Netzach](/keys/NTzCh), the seventh Sephirah) is called the [Occult or Hidden Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.NSThR). It is so called because it is the brilliant splendor of all the intellectual powers which are beheld by the eye of understanding and the thought of faith.* [Book of Formation]. see [710](710), [1060](1060)

---

### [Key 7: The Chariot](/keys/Ch)

- cheth: fence (ח)
- Receptivity-Will
- Intelligence of the House of Influence - [saykel](/keys/ShKL) [beth](/keys/BITh) [ha-shefah](/keys/HShPO) (שכל בית השפע)
- Cancer
- Speech

---

### [Zain](/keys/Z) - ז
Sword or weapon. See [57](57), [The Seventeenth Path](17)

> "...it is no coincidence tht the letter Zain is the symbolic representatve of both sustenance and armament. The two concepts are related to each other. The letter Zain is shaped like a spear, indicating that man's sustenance is obtained by his struggle [The Wisdom of the Hebrew Alphabet, Rabbi Munk].

> Fabre D'Olivet writes: *"This character as consonant, belongs to the hissing sound, and is applied as onomatopoeic means, to all hissing noises, to all objects which cleave the air. As symbol, it is represented by the javelin, dart, arrow, that which tends to an end: As grammatical sign, it is the demonstrative sign, abstract image of the link which unites things. The Hebrew does not employ it as article; but in Ethopic, it fulfills the functions of the demonstrative article."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restore, p. 339](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/n359/mode/2up)]

---

### [Gad](/keys/GD) - גד
> Good fortune, luck, a tribe of Israel. [Genesis 30:11](http://biblehub.com/genesis/30-11.htm). Hebrew tribe associated with Aries. Attributed to the function of sight, with calcination, the first stage of the Great work (see [95](95), [30](30), [570](570), [501](501), [54](54), [331](331), [830](830), [395](395)).

> Coriander is the name of the Babylonian god of Good fortune, similar to Jupiter. The path joining Chesed to Netzach is that of the letter Kaph, attributed to Jupiter. In astrology Venus is the Lesser Fortune, as Jupiter is the Greater. The Life-power always expresses itself in ways that are God, in forms that are Beneficent (see 10, 44). ROOT: a sign of abundance born of division.

---

### [ahbad](/keys/ABD) - אבד
> to scatter, to disperse, to lose oneself, to wander, to be lost, perish, ruined. A word used in the Old Testament to indicate the "lost sheep of the House of Israel." This corresponds to the negative meaning of Zayin, the sword, as a destructive weapon. What is lost, as a sheep from a flock, is separated from its proper companions and from its environment, and this agrees with the idea of division suggested by Zain.

> In its meaning to scatter, to disperse, it suggest dissemination or sowing. It diffuses, spreads, distributes and apportions. The archetypical world is the great reservoir of seed-forms, these being the platonic ideas. Symbolized by Yod, the male, spermgiving principle of the Universe.

---

### [dabah](/keys/DBA) - דבא
> influx, to flow in, prosperity, riches. This influx into the seeds of a forms which is the [Mezela](/keys/MZLA) [מזלא] or influence, is the source of all riches (see [78](78)).

---

### [dobeh](/keys/DBA) - דבא
> strength, affluence; rest, quiet, compare with the meaning given to the number 7.

---

### [dab](/keys/DAB) - דאב
> to melt away, become faint, pine away, sorrowful, languish. There is a craving within the No-thing which causes in itself the will to create something.

---

### [dahg](/keys/DG) - דג
> A fish. The root-meaning of דג is "to multiply abundantly". This is the singular form of the plural noun דגים [Dagim](/keys/DGIM), fishes. It is the name of the Pisces where Venus is exalted and Jupiter rules. This intimates that the powers represented by 4 (Chesed) and 7 (Netzach) are related (see [57](57), [70](70), [700](700), [175](175)).

> דגה [Dagah](/keys/DGH), to grow, to multiply, to become numerous, to spawn like fish, is derived from דג. It is used in [Genesis 48:16](http://biblehub.com/genesis/48-16.htm). It is an occult reference to the infinite potentiality of the archetypal world, the plane of original ideas (see [12](12), [22](22), [14](14), [21](21), [44](44), [66](66), [28](28), [88](88)).

---

### [ow](/keys/AV) - או
> desire, will, appetite; choice. All are attributes of Sulfur, the 2nd Alchemical principle (see [693](693), [73](73), [290](290)). It is also used as a conjunction signifying: or, either, but, if, perhaps (suggesting uncertainty). The motive power of the Lifepower's self-manifestation is its desire to actualize its own possibilities. "Either" and "Or" implies choice, selection, decision, the shaping of a course, the singling out of particular modes of expression. Thus AV connotes desire combined with decision.

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *The potential sign [A] united to the universal convertible sign [V], image of the mysterious link which joins nothingness to being, constitutes one of the most difficult roots to conceive which the Hebrew tongue can offer. In proportion as the sense is generalized, one sees appear all ideas of appeteble, concupiscible passion, vague desire.*

---

### [bahdah](/keys/BDA) - בדא
> to form, to devise, produce, invent; fabricate. The archetypal phase of the creative process is imagination, inventing a new forms of self-expression. The archetypal world is the plane of original ideas. In the negative sense, to feign, to pretend, to counterfeit.

---

### [haa](/keys/HAA) - האא
> 26th name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 2nd quinance (6°-10°) of Sagittarius.

---

### [Aha](/keys/AHA) - אהא
> Notariqon of [Adonai Ha-Eretz](/keys/ADNI.HARTz), the Divine name of Malkuth, meaning "Lord of the Earth." (see [361](361)).

---

### [agag](/keys/AGG) - אגג
> "flame." The proper name Agag.

---

### [bah](/keys/BH) - בה
> in her.

---

### English Gematria:

- [be](/english?word=be) *([Fama Intro p.14](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n14/mode/2up))*

---

### See Also:

- [57](57)
- [148](148)





