## 8 - Eight

> 2x2x2. The Ogdoad. Names for the number 8: see [15](15), [370](370), [585](585), [720](720) *[The Gematria Notebooks of Paul Foster Case]*

> *I look forward with confidence to the perfect realization of the Eternal Splendor of the Limitless Light. [Pattern on the Trestleboard]*

### Rhythm

- periodicity
- alternation
- vibration
- pulsation
- flux and reflux
- involution and evolution
- education
- culture
- the response of subconsciousness to everything symbolized by 7.
- infinity

> The motion of the Great Magical Agent is serpentine because it is both wavy, or undulating, and spiral. This coiling, spiral, vibratory motion of the serpent power is one reason for associatingn it with the number 8, for 8 is a numeral symbol of rhythmic vibration. Thus in writing a figure 8 we make the same curved lines which are shown in the Caduceus of Hermes excepting 0, 8 is the only figure that can be written over and over again without lifting the pen from the paper. Thus it is a sign of endless activity.

> 8 is called the Dominical Number, or special number representing Christ. It is also a symbol for the Holy Spirit, sometimes described as a feminine potency. This is the reason the 8 in Key 1 and Key 8 is placed in a horizontal, or feminine, position.

> 8 symbolizes the ancient doctrine that all opposites are effects of a single cause, and that balanced, reciprocal action and reaction between opposites results in harmony. Pythagoreans even called 8 Harmonia. This is a great practical secret of Ageless Wisdom.

> The extension of 8 is [36](36). The complete expression of 8 may be understood to be the perfect manifestation of the power of the Ego, because 36 is 6x6. By adding the digits of 36 we see ---. Thus we see that the essential result of the theosophical extension of [text ends].

> The curves are reciprocal and alternating. Thus 8 expresses perfectly the repetition of equal and complementary parts. The two curves represent the paths of involutions and evolution, the descending curve for involution, and ascending curve for evolution. *[Gematria PFC]*

#### [The Eighth Path](/keys/HVD)
> *The eighth path (Hod, the eighth Sephirah) is called the [Perfect Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.ShLM). It is so called because it is the dwelling-place of the Primordial. It has no root in which it may abide other than the recesses of Gedulah whence its essence emanates.* [The Book of Formation]. see [370](370), [720](720).

> *"It is the Absolute Intelligence, preparing ?themselves? according to the immutable and perfect law."* [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom]

[Hod](/keys/HVD), הוד, Splendor. see [15](15), [practicus](100).

### [Key 8: Strength](/keys/T)

- teth (ט): serpent
- Suggestion
- [Intelligence of the Secret of all Spiritual Activities](/keys/ShKL.SVD.HPOVLVTh.HRVChNIVTh). see [1702](1702)
- Leo
- Digestion, Taste
- Kundalini

### [Cheth](/keys/Ch) - ח
> Fence, field; the eighth Hebrew letter assigned to Cancer, the [intelligence of the House of influence](18), to the chariot, [Key 7](7) in the Tarot and to the direction east-below on the Cube of Space, as well as to alchemical separation ([95](95), [1360](1360)). It is the sign or symbol for the faculty of speech.

> *"The character for Cheth is similar to that for Heh, but the line on the left is joined to the cross bar. Qabalists consider that this character is a combination of Daleth and Vav, so that its concealed numerical value is [10](10). Thus, by number, this character refers to the letter Yod, and also Malkuth, the Kingdom, of tenth Sephirah. It is said also to be the sign of the combination of the 4th and 6th Sephiroth, Mercy and Beauty. Hebrew words corresponding to 10 include the following: [AHD](/keys/AHD) אהד, to be united, unity; [AT](/keys/AT) אט, gently, softly, secretly, an enchanter; [BDD](/keys/BDD) בדד to divide, separateness, separation; [BZA](/keys/BZA) בזא, to cleave asunder; [GBH](/keys/GBH) גבה, elevated, exalted, high; [DAH](/keys/DAH) דאה, flew, soared; [HH](/keys/HH) הה, window, the name of the fifth letter; [ChB](/keys/ChB) חב, hidden place, bosom. The numeral correspondence between these words is the symbol of a relationship between them. You should endeavor to work out these concealed relationships." [Tarot Practice Course]*

> Elsewhere PFC writes: *"Since the phoenicians carried their alphabets to the great centers of civilization in the ancient world, most of the symbols have undergone many alterations. To this rule, however, Cheth the eighth letter, as a notable exception. In the oldest records it consists of two, upright, joined by either two or three cross-bars. The character used in Greek inscriptions found at thera, and in one of the earliest Latin alphabets, is composed of two rectangles, one above the other. A variation of the Aramaic script interlocked into western India after the conquest of Darius indicates Cheth by two vertical lines with a single cross-bar at the top. A similar form appears in modern Hebrew. It is also interesting to find that as early as 500 B.C. in north western Arabia, astele commemoration the establishment of an aramaic divinity was written in an alphabet having a character for Cheth identical with the modern 'H'. The phoenician pictograph probably represented field, surrounded by a rectangular fence. It therefore suggest the same notions of particular location, enclosure, and specialized effort which are associated with the letter Beth. We may expect, on this account, to learn that the Tarot trump to be considered in this chapter symbolizes the same root ideas that are brought to mind by the picture of the magician. All cabalistic interpretations of Cheth agree that the letter stands for something that necessitates labor.*

> *Fabre D'Olivet was not always certain of his philology, but he was a thorough kabbalist; so that, while we must nearly always reject his views as to alphabetical origins we can often accept his explanation of the esoteric significance of the Hebrew letters. He says of Cheth: "This letter is the sign of the elementary existence; it is the image of a kind of equilibrium, and attaches itself to ideas of effort, of labor, and of normal and legislative action."*

> *It is a symbol of that which requires the expenditure of strength of power; and it implies that the energy so used is directed to a definite end. Behind all these notions is the idea that the field stands in opposition to the worker. At the beginning of his labors it presents difficulties, even dangers. In its original state it gives trouble. It offers problems and puzzles that must be solved and mastered. After it has been brought under control it co-operates, in a manner of speaking, with the worker; but first of all it must be overcome by 'normal and legislative action.' The outcome of such action is the establishment of order. Putting things in order is, in fact, the great secret of human achievement. No matter what you do, before you can succeed you must get rid of disorder somewhere. The more recondite significance of Cheth is related to the doctrine that this letter is a sign of elementary existence. The word 'elementary' as used by Fabre D'Olivet, means rudimental. What he speaks of is what the alchemist called their first matter, or chaos. The latter word implies disorder, Webster defines it as 'the confused, unorganized state of primordial matter before the creation of distinct and orderly forms! [The Secret Doctrine of the Tarot, The Word, June 1917, pp 144-144]*

> Cheth is used in technical terms to refer to drawing forth knowledge hidden in the subconsciousness, to the elucidation of mysteries, to the bringing of concealed meanings to the surface.

> *"The form of the letter Cheth resembles a gateway. Through a gateway one enters and exits. One enters into an inner realm or chamber, a deeper state of awareness, a truer level of experience. One exits to return to one's pervious, stable state of existence, infused with the light of one's new experience." [The Alef-Beit, Rabbi Ginsburgh]*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"Cheth E. H. CH. This character can be considered under the double relation of vowel or consonant. As vocal sound it is the symbol of elementary existence and represents the principle of vital aspiration: as consonant it belongs to the guttural sound and represents the field of man, his labor, that which demands on his part any effort, care, fatigue. As grammatical sign it holds an intermediary rank between Heh, life, absolute existence, and Kaph, life, relative and assimilated existence. It presents thus, the image of a sort of equilibrium and equality, and is attached it ideas of effort, labor, and of normal and legislative action. [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.346]*

Fence or enclosure. See [The Eighteenth Path](18)

### [Awz](/keys/AZ) - אז
> into that place, there; at that time; therefore. A demonstrative particle which originally meant "in that place, there." From this basic meaning, transferred to time, it came to mean "at that time, then," and was used in reference to both past and future. AZ is used in Hebrew as "then" is employed English to indicate a casual relationship, like "therefore," or "on that account." All meanings of the word imply relationship, and designate some tie or connection of thought or activity between this place and that, this time and that (whether considered as being the cause of this event, or an effect or consequence yet to come). Additional meanings: whether, also, if.

> Fabre D'Olivet adds: *This root, but little used in Hebrew designates a fixed point in space or duration; a measured distance. It is expressed in a restricted sense by the adverbial relations there or then. The Arabic characterizes a sort of locomotion, agitation, pulsation, bubbling movement. As a verb it has the sense of giving a principle; of founding. The Chaldic AZA expresses a movement of ascension according to which a thing is placed above another in consequence or this specific gravity. The Ethopic AZZ develops all ideas of command, ordination, subordination." [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 291]*

### [Dabab](/keys/DBB) - דבב
> to go softly, to creep along, to flow gently; as wine poured carefully from a wineskin. Derived from it is the negative meaning, "to slander to disparage," based on the idea of the sneaky, creeping progress of a tale bearer. There is here also some hint of the serpent symbolism associated with Hermes. see [15](15), [2080](2080), [217](217), [412](412), [421](421), [567](567), [626](626), [131](131).

To move slowly; to cause to speak; to quote from departed authors.

### [Dad](/keys/DD) - דד
> the breast (of women) as the seat of love. Self-consciousness is the aspect of mental activity which makes possible the higher aspects of love and affection. It makes man able to relate cause and effect. It is what makes him a timebinder, uniting past and present and future. Also nipple, teat, nipple of citrus fruit; tap.

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"Every idea of abundance, and division; of propagation, effusion and influence; or sufficient reason, affinity and sympathy. דד, that which is divided in order to be propagated; that which acts by sympathy, affinity, influence, literally breast. The Arabic indicates a pleasing thing, game, or amusement." [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, page 320]*

### [ava](/keys/AVA) - אוא
> Given, without explanation, by Mathers, in [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 1]. This word is not found in scripture or the Hebrew Lexicon and may be a notariqon.

### [ahbaha](/keys/ABH) - אבה
> to desire, want or need; to consent; be willing. Ebeh. reed, papyrus.

### [ahgad](/keys/AGD) - אגד
> to bind or collect; tie, knot, bundle.

### [ehged](/keys/AGD) - אגד
> bunch, bundle, tie, knot; union.

### [ahab](/keys/AHB) - אהב
> to love; love relationship, to be fond of, beloved.

### [ehab](/keys/AHB) - אהב
> lust or desire.

### [ZA](/keys/ZA) - זא
> Notariqon for [Zauir Anpin](/keys/ZOIR.ANPIN), **זעיר אנפין**. the Lesser Countenance, or Microprosopus, a designation for Tiphareth. see [478](478).

### [bah](/keys/BAH) - באה
> entrance, threshold.

### [heba](/keys/HBA) - הבא
> bring.

### [dag](/keys/DAG) - דאג
> to be anxious, the proper name Doeg.

### [Beth-Vav](/keys/B.V) - ב ו
> Mercury in Taurus


