## 9 - Nine

> (3x3). The Ennead. Names for the number 9: see [80](80).

> 9 is the number of the Foundation, that is the basis of the Invisible, of its conjunction with our physical world. Every number which can be numerically reduced to 9 is linked to the 3 ways of initiation: 9 = 3+3+3, way of rigor (Fire), way of balance, and way of Mercifulness (Water).

> Perfection or finish in the sense of 9 months of gestation for a human. Representing the ongoing cycle as the last number of a the series and therefore completion.

> *"In thought, and word, and deed, I rest my life, from day to day, upon the sure [Foundation](/keys/ISVD) of Eternal Being."* [The Pattern on the Trestleboard]

> see [775](775).

### [The Ninth Path](/keys/ISVD) - יסוד
> *"The ninth path, יסוד [Yesod](/keys/ISVD), the ninth Sephirah is called the [Pure Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.THVR). It is so called because it purifies the essence of the Sephiroth, proves and preserves their images, and prevents them from loss by their union with itself."* [The Book of Formation]. see [220](220), [570](570)

> *"It is the Clear Intelligence, purifying all numerations and preserving the integrity of their images."* [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom]

### [Key 9: The Hermit](/keys/I)

- yod: open hand (י)
- Response
- Intelligence of Will, [The Twentieth Path](20)
- Virgo
- Touch, Union of Opposites, Coition

Note that the lantern of the Hermit is an **artificial** creation, which shines light in a controlled, deliberate manner. The lantern *shapes* the light, which penetrates darkness *created* by ignorance.

### Conclusion

- Conclusion: literally, "closing together" which implies the union of elements which are separate until the conclusion is reached, and has special reference to meanings attached to 9 through the Tarot key bearing this number.
- goal
- end
- completion
- fulfillment
- attainment
- the final result of the process sumbolized by the series of digits
- perfection
- adeptship
- the mystical "three times three" of Freemasons and of other societies which preserve some of the vestiges of the ancient mysteries.

### [Teth](/keys/T) - ט
> Serpent, the ninth Hebrew letter, associated with Leo, with the Intelligence of the Secret of All Spiritual Activities, with the direction North-Above on the Cube of Space, and with alchemical digestion. see [419](419).

> *"The Phoenicians indicated that letter Teth by a circle enclosing a cross, a similar character for the ninth letter appears in other ancient alphabets, and it survives in a modified from to this day, as the Greek Theta. The object represented is a tally, hence the first idea the letter suggest is counting. Now, counting is the beginning of exact knowledge, and the measuring rod is the true wand of miracles; for numeration is the basis of all arithmetic, arithmetic is the foundation of mathematics, and upon mathematics the whole structure of science is reared.. of.. number-puzzles, the symbol for Teth is a good example. The clue to its meaning is the mathematical relation between the diameter and the circumference of a circle. Approximately, this is as 1 to 3 1/7. The number 7, therefore is the only integer which, taken as a diameter, will correspond to a circumference that may be represented by a whole number; and a circle with a diameter of 7 will have a circumference of 22. Thus the symbol for Teth, because it has two diameters, will suggest to the initiated the sum of twice [7](7) plus [22](22), which is the solar number [36](36). Numerically, then, this character corresponds to the sun....*

> *"The form of Teth is 'inverted,' thus symbolizing hidden, inverted good-as expressed in the Zohar, 'its good is hidden within it.' The form of the letter Teth symbolizes the union of the groom and the bride consummating with conception. The secret of the Teth (numerically equivalent to nine, the nine months of pregnancy) is the power of the mother to carry her inner, concealed good -- the fetus -- through the period of pregancy."* [The Alef-Beit, Rabbi Ginsburgh].

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"This character, as consonant, belongs to the dental sound. As symbolic image it represents the shelter of man; the roof that he raises to protect him; his shield. As grammatical sign it is that of resistance and protection. It serves as link between Daleth and Tav, and partakes of their properties, but in an inferior degree."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.356]

### [azza](/keys/AZA) - אזא
> to kindle, to heat. see 8 (AZ).

### [achah](/keys/ACh) - אח
> fire-pot, hearth, chafing dish, fire place. Also brother, relative, one, someone. With different vowel points, meadow, pasture; Also an interjection, cry of woe, AH!, Alas! Woe!

> Fabre D'Olivet comments:*"The potential sign united to that of elementary existence Cheth [ח], image of the travail of nature, produce a root whence results all ideas of equilibrium, equally identity, fraternity. When the sign Cheth characterizes principally all efforts, the root אח takes the meaning of its analogues אג, אך, and represents a somewhat violent action. It furnishes then all ideas of excitation, and becomes the name of the place where the fire is lighted, the hearth. אח, Brother, kinsman, associate, neighbors: The common hearth where al assembled. The arabic [word] contains all the meaning attributed to the Hebrew אח."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored. page 291]

### [babah](/keys/BBH) - בבה
> cavity, something hollowed out, the apple of the eye, apple.

### [beged](/keys/BGD) - בגד
> to cover, a cloak, covering, dress, garment; treachery, deceit, betrayal, unfaithfulness. With different vowel points: to act or deal treacherously. [N.B. Daleth, Gimel, Beth are the first of the 7 double letters; and the other 4 are Kaph, Peh, Resh, Tav (700), the cover (Kapporath) of the ark of the covenant = mercy seat (Ezekiel 25:17)]

### [gav](/keys/GV) - גו
> middle; midst, inside, center.
 
> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"גי, גו, גה. The organic sign united either to that of life, or to that of universal convertible force, or to that of manifestation, constitutes a root which becomes the symbol of every organization. This root which possesses the same faculties of extension and aggrandizement that we have observed in the root גא, contains ideas apparently opposed to envelopment and development, according to the point of view under which one considers the organization."*

> The Arabic [word] indicates universal envelopment, space, atmosphere; [Arabic word] characterizes that which protects.

GV: one of the founders of the Rosicrucian Order.

### [had](/keys/HD) - הד
> a sounding again, an echoing shout, shout, noise; echo. Variant spelling of HVD Hod, meaning: majesty, elegance; beauty, splendor (see 15).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: HD, like the root AD, of which it is only a modification, it is attached to all ideas of spiritual emanation, the diffusion of a thing absolute in its nature as the effect of sound, light, voice, echo. The Hebraic root is found in the Arabic root [word] which is applied to every kind of sound, murmur, noise; but by natural deviation the arabic root having become onomatopetic and idiomatic, the [aramic] verb signifies to demolish, cast down, overthrow by similitude of the noise made by the thing which are demolished." [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, page 328]

### [Daleth-Heh](/keys/D.H) - ד ה
> Venus in Aries.

### [vebaw](/keys/VBA) - ובא
> "future, coming."

### [dahg](/keys/BDG) - בדג
> "to multiply abundantly."

### [bevah](/keys/BVA) - בוא
> to enter, alight, to come into, till one comes.

### [BAV?](/keys/BAV) - באו
> In desire.

### [ga'ah](/keys/GAH) - גאה
> to swell, grow, rise or increase, become powerful, exalted, glorious; to be lifted up. These are activities of Yesod, or Foundation, the Pure Intelligence. *"So called because it purifies the essence of the sephiroth, proves and preserves there images, and prevent them from loss by their union with itself."* see [18](18), [27](27), [36](36), [45](45), [54](54), [63](63), [72](72), [81](81), [90](90), [80](80), [369](369), [3321](3321).

### [aob, ob](/keys/AVB) - אוב
> Magic. ghost conjurer, sorcerer; to mumble, a ventriloquist. The forced used in the Magic of Darkness. Also skin bag, i.e., implying pregency.

### [adad](/keys/ADD) - אדד
> to endure, to last, continue, era, duration, space and time.

### [beged](/keys/BGD) - בגד
> covering, garment, robe; concealment.