## 10 - Ten
> (2x5). Σ4 = 10. In occult arithmetic, 10 and 7 are related. The sum of the numbers 0 to 7 is 28, and the digits of 28 add to 10. Names for the number 10: see [Malkuth](496).

> *"The number 10 is an all-embracing number. Outside of it there exists no other, for what is beyond 10 returns again to units."* A. Moses Cordovero- ???[PRDS RMVNIM].???

> One Greek name for 10 was Pantelia, signifying "all complete," or, "fully accomplished." Westcott says: *"Note that ten is used as a sign of fellowship, love, peace and union, in the Masonic third token, the union of two five points of fellowship." Ten is also the number of complete manifestation, according to the Qabalist."*

> Qabalists consider that the letter Cheth is a combination of Daleth and Vav, so that its concealed value is 10, thus by number, this letter refers to the letter Yod and also to Malkuth, the Kingdom, the 10th Sephirah. It is said also to be the sign of the combination of the 4th and 6th Sephiroth Chesed and Tiphareth.

> *The Kingdom of Spirit is imbodied in my Flesh.* [Pattern on the Trestleboard]

### [The Tenth Path, Malkuth](/keys/MLKVTh) - מלכות
> *The tenth path (the tenth Sephirah, [Malkuth](/keys/MLKVTh)) is called the [Resplendent Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.MThNVTzO). It is so called because it is exalted above every head and sits on the throne of Binah. It illuminates the splendor of all the lights and causes the flowing forth of influence from the Prince of the Countenances.* [The Book of Formation]. [656](656), [1006](1006), [zelator](85), [malkuth](496).

### [Key 10: Wheel of Fortune](/keys/K) - כ

- [kaph](/keys/K): grasping hand (כ)
- Rotation
- [Intelligence of Desirous Quest](986). See [The Twenty-First Path](21)
- Jupiter
- Wealth and Poverty

### [Yod](/keys/I) - י
> Hand. Yod is the foundation of the letters and resembles a tongue of flame, symbolizes the flame of spiritual energy which is present in all forms of the life-power's self-expression.

> *"The tenth letter of the Alef-Beit, Yod, is barely larger than a dot and it cannot be divided inot component parts. It alludes to God, Who is One and Indivisible, for although his attributes seem to be numerious and even contradictory, they flow from a unified purpose and existence"* [The Wisdom of the Hebrew Alphabet, Rabbi Munk].

> Yod is a Hebrew noun meaning "the hand of man." Thus it is directly connected with the ancient doctrine: The primary and fundamental Reality of the universe is identical with the power expressed by the handiwork of human beings.

> The upper point of Yod represents the Primal Will, while the rest of the letter corresponds to the aspect of the Life-power named Wisdom. This means that all mental activity is derived directly from the essential Will of the One Identity, and this mental activity, or volition, takes form as the Wisdom which is the basis for the entire cosmic order. Furthermore, the mental activity of the Primal Will, symbolized by the upper point of Yod, expands into the life-force of all beings, and this life-force is fiery.

> *The Power manifested in the reproductive function, not the function itself. It is [Chaiah](/keys/ChIH), the universal Life-Force. The specific expression of Chiah we control and direct by occult practice is, indeed, that which energizes the repreductive organs from the Mars center. Its control is effected indirectly, by mental activities, which automatically bring about the requried sublimation. The work begins by simple concentration. This established, meditation follows. yod is the channel fo God's will* [Zohar I, p11]. See [23](23), [90](90), [18](18).

See [The Twentieth Path](20)

### [Heh](/keys/HH) - הה
> The letter-name for Heh. Window. Woe, alas. The first Heh represents *insight,* or the Life-power's own knowledge of iteslf. The second Heh is a symbol of *foresight,* directed toward the outcome of necessary consequences following from what insight reveals (see [514](514)). It is written that creation takes place with the letter Heh. Now Heh is the letter of vision, and it is spelled by its own self-duplication, that is, הה. Of these the first is the sign of the waters of Binah, and the second is the sign of the earth of Malkuth. Each is by number half of the paternal Yod, for Heh is 5 and Yod is 10, thus may you see in the first Heh the Sephiroth from Kether to Geburah, and the second, those from Tiphareth to Malkuth. The whole tree is thus expressed by the name of this one letter. The first Heh is insight, the second is the same vision, tuned outward into manifestation. *[The Gematria Notebook of Paul Foster Case, p. 29]*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"This character is the symbol of all manifested power. It represents the hand of man, the forefinger. As grammatical sign, it is that of potential manifestation, intellectual duration, eternity. This character, remarkable in its vocal nature, loses the greater part of its faculties in becoming consonant, where it signifies only a material duration, a refraction, a sort of link as Zain, or of movement as Shin. Plato gave particular attention to this vowel which he considered as assigned to the female sex and designated consequently all that which is tender and delicate.*

> *"The Hebraist grammarians who rank this character among the heemanthes, attribute to it the virtue of expressing at the beginning of words, duration and strength; but it is only a result of its power as sign."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.361]

### [ate](/keys/AT) - אט
> gently, softly, secretly, slow. Also an enchanter, soothsayer, mutterer, magician, sorcerer. see [220](220).

> Fabre D'Olivet: *"This root is scarcely used in Hebrew except to describe a sound or a slow, silent movement. The arabic [word] expresses any kind of murmuring noise. אט a magic murmur; witchcraft, enchantment."* [The Hebrew tongue restored, p. 292].

### [ohad](/keys/AHD) - אהד 
> unity; to be united. Also a personal name.

### [badah, bawdahad](/keys/BDD) - בדד
> to divide, separation, separateness, separately; to scatter; alone, isolated, in a lonely state (see [6](6)).

### [baza, bawzah](/keys/BZA) - בזא
> to cleave asunder, destroy; to divide, cut through, spoil.

### [gabah, gobah](/keys/GBH) - גבה
> height, altitude; exaction, pride, haughtiness [Psalm 101:5](http://biblehub.com/psalms/101-5.htm), [Proverbs 16:5](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/16-5.htm). Also גבה (Gawboah) high, tall, lofty, exacted, elevated and גבה to collect payment, גבה eyebrow. see [144](144).

### [gaz, geaw](/keys/GZ) - גז
> Fleece; the shorn wool; shearing; mowing, mowed grass; field for mowing. Referring to Aries, the Ram to which the letter Heh is attributed. Fabre D'Olivet: *"The root אז, which indicated the movement of that which tends to take away, united to the organic sign, constitutes a root whose use is to characterize the action by which one suppresses, takes away, extracts every superfluity, every growth; thence גוז, the action of clipping wool, shaving the hair, mowing the grass; taking away the tops of things, polishing, roughness. The arabic [word] has the same meaning as the Hebrew. the verb xxx is applied in the modern idiom that which is allowable and lawful."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 313]

### [zab](/keys/ZAB) - זאב
> to be yellow, a wolf. [Jeremiah 5:6](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/5-6.htm): *"Therefore a lion out of the forest shall slay them, and a wold of the evening shall spoil them, a leopard shall watch over their cities: everyone that goeth out thence shall be torn to pieces: Because their transgressions are many, and their backslidings are increased."*

> Fabre D'Olivet: *"זאב, a wolf, on account of the luminous darts which flash from its eyes in the darkness."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.339] see זא ([8](8))

### [Chobe](/keys/ChB) - חב
> Fabre D'Olivet: *"The sign of elementary existence united to the root אב, symbol of all fructification, forms a root whose purpose is to describe that which is occult, hidden, mysterious, secret, enclosed, as a germ, as all elementary fructification: if the root אב is taken in its acceptation of desire to have, the root in question here, will develop the idea of an amorous relation, or fecundation. This is why the arabic [word] taken in a restricted sense, signifies to love; whereas in a broader sense this root develops all ideas of grain, germ, semence, etc. חב or חבב to hide mysteriously, to impregnate, to brood, etc. In a restricted sense, the arabic [word] signifies to become partial, to favor. As onomatopoeic root [word] suggest the noise of whetting a sabre."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 346]

### [ta](/keys/TA) - טא
> to sweep away (Godwin). This word is not found in scripture or the Hebrew Lexicon. However, Fabre D'Olivet writes: *"Every idea of resistance, repulsion, rejection, reflection; that which causes luminous refraction. The arabic [word] develops the idea of every kind of bending, inflection. Thence the verb [xxx] to blow down."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 356]

### [bagah](/keys/BGH) - בגה
> to cover, a cloak, treachery, deceit.

### [khobe](/keys/ChB) - חב
> hiding place, bosom. Cheth/Beth. Mercury in Cancer.

### [dawaw](/keys/DAH) - דאה
> to fly, to soar.

### [du](/keys/DV) - דו
> two; (the prefix) bi-.

### [zab](/keys/ZAB) - זאב
> to be yellow, a wolf.

### [zawg](/keys/ZG) - זג
> skin of a grape; husk, shell. see [7](7), [44](44), [164](164).

### [hagah](/keys/HAGA) - האגא
> "the reservoir."

## Greek/Latin

### [Iota](/greek?word=i) (Gr) - I
> Value of the Greek letter I (iota), the 8th letter of the alphabet. In the Pistis Sopina it is said "Iota (I) because the universe hath gone forth..." Parts of the Greek Mystery phrase IA-Omega. see [811](811).
