## 11 - Eleven
> Prime.

### [The Eleventh Path](/keys/A) - 
> The eleventh path (Aleph, joining Kether to Chokmah) is called the Scintillating or Fiery Intelligence. It is the essence of the veil placed before the dispositions and order of the superior and inferior causes. He who possesses this path is in the enjoyment of great dignity for he stands face to face with the Cause of Causes. *[The Book of Formation]*

Conferred by knowledge of the 11th Path:

> *"Aleph - He beholds God face to face, without dying, and converses familiarly with the seven genii who command the entire celestial army.* [Eliphas Levi, Transcendental Magic]

> *"I am the Scintillating Intelligence, veiling with the fire of Spirit, the causes superior from the causes inferior."* [Meditations on the 32 Paths of Wisdom].

### [Key 11: Justice](/keys/L)

- [Lamed](/keys/LMD): ox-goad (ל)
- Equilibration, Karma
- [Faithful Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.NAMN). [The Twenty-Second Path](22)
- Libra
- Action, Work
- Green / F-sharp

### [Ahyee](/keys/AI) - אי
where? how? The power of Will (י) expressed through the Life-Breath (א). Also dry land, coast, country, island (Job 22:30), where one acts, where one is.

### [Brother IA](/keys/IA) - יא
One of the Rosicrucian Founders. Notariqon for [yehi aur](/keys/IHI.AVR) (יהי אור - [232](232)), "Let there be Light."

### See Also
- [2](2)

11 (prime)

### [dahab](/keys/DHB) - 
> Gold (Aramaic). Conceals an alchemical secret. Daleth (Venus) Cheth (a sign ruled by the Moon) and Beth (Mercury). Venus, Luna, and Mercury are the alchemical copper, silver and quicksilver. The first two are the best conductors of electricity. One the tree these correspond to the Paths which balance those corresponding letters of AVD. DChB is one of the alchemical name for the perfect red stone which is ABN HADM and also ADM ([103](103), [53](53), [157](157)). The Red Stone is also termed GPRITh (sulphur, [693](693)).

### [haga](/keys/ChG) - 
> circularity of form or motion; a feast, festival; sacrifice. The magic force moves in cycles, it comes back to its starting point--it WHEELS, so to say. For this reason every magical ritual is performed within a circle (see [789](789)).

### [gawdah](/keys/GDD) - 
> to tear out, attack, to cut off, to cut; to pick dates.

### [zad](/keys/ZD) - 
> Proud, haughty; insolent; presumptuous.

### [chabah](/keys/ChBA) - 
> to conceal; to hide oneself, to be hidden.

### [gob](/keys/GVB) - 
> a locust; to dig; husband man.

### [Ovd](/keys/ADV) - 
> The English equivalent of several Hebrew names among whom was a prophet or seer [2 Chronicles 9:29](http://biblehub.com//.htm), [12:15](http://biblehub.com//.htm), [13:22](http://biblehub.com//.htm).

### [ode](/keys/AVD) - 
> the fire of the magic light, firebrand, the magic power. Aleph is the divine Life-breath (RVCh), Vav is the link which joins into all beings, and Daleth is the door of life through which all things are manifested (see [207](207), [363](363), [89](89)).

> *"Now the name ShDI EL ChI beginneth with the number 314, then followeth 31, and ChI is 18. This bringeth the whole to 363, and see, this is 11 times itself and multiplied again by 3. Now 11 is AVD (Od) and 3 is Gimel. AVD is the magic power and Gimel is the beginning of Guph the body. Aleph is the Breath, Vav is the Link, Daleth is the Door of Life and is Nogah also, which giveth the Victory. In Gimel or 3 is Recollection and Union, and for the wise the letters of AVD speak with a loud tongue. In Yesod is all this centered and they who know the secret of Yod, become the extenders of the paternal Life and Light. Thus is Yesod called the Sphere of the Moon, and that same Moon pertaineth also to Gimel, the letter of Union. Blessed are they who hear and understand, and understanding, live as they know... Note well the warning implied. There are many who seek to be spiritual at the expense of the body. They repudiate all that pertains to Yesod because they misunderstand its real significance. You may have wondered what this section of the Text has to do with the Astral plane... Yet the Text points straight to the one thing, and that is, that the mystery of the 9th Sephira is a secret of Yod."* [27th Communication 1/15/48]. see [343](343), [80](80), [214](214), [18](18).

> *"AVD. Positive emanation of the astral fluids or currents. It is the double, the phantom electro-magnetic, but of an electricity and a magnetism vitalized very strongly and related to the ether of all living beings, even of the plants, the minerals and crystals, which appear in a colored vapor in the darkness. And is the manifestation of the intimate will of native, the magical force, the astral forms of the universe center, the one which becomes concrete in the innumerable types of the world, its forms its imprints, the simple vestments of AVD or the astral. AVD is the negative emanation and united these two make AVR, the universal light, or the liquid Gold of the Hermetists."* [note by Lilli Gelse, circa 1920]

> Fabre D'Olivet Comments: *"AVD: that which is done because of or on occasion of another thing: an affair, a thing, an occurrence.* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 289]

### [ahyee](/keys/AI) - 
> Where?, How? Look to the Life-breath (A) expressed as Will (I) for the magic power. Also dry land, coast, country (Job 22:30), where one acts, where one is.

> Fabre D'Olivet: *"Power accompanied by manifestation, forms a root whose meaning, akin to that which we have found in the root AV, expresses the same idea of desire, but less vague and more determined. It is no longer sentiment, passion without object, which falls into incertitude: it is the very object of this sentiment, the center toward which the will tends, the place where it is fixed. A remarkable thing is, that if the root AV is represented in its most abstract acceptation by the prepostive relation or, the root AI is represented, in the same acceptation, by the adverbial relation where."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 292]

### [Gimel/Cheth](/keys/G.Ch) - 
> Moon in Cancer.

### [hagan](/keys/HAGB) - 
> "the means by"

### [hagehbeh](/keys/HAGA) - 
> "the reservoir."

### [ha-bad](/keys/HBD) - 
> separated.

### [Vade](/keys/VAD) - 
> "vapor, mist."

### [va-ahbab](/keys/VABB) - 
> and to bear fruit, to blossom.

### [vabahabah](/keys/VBBA) - 
> gate, door.

### [vagab](/keys/VGB) - 
> upper surface.

### [ha-heh](/keys/HHA) - 
> to behold.

### [ia](/keys/IA) - 
> Oh! ROOT: all movements of the soul which spring from admiration and astonishment (d'Olivet, page 362).

### [beyboah](/keys/BBVA) - 
> When? The power used this moment in the Magic of Light. Also ve-boa: the coming of.

### [gaddah](/keys/GDD) - 
> to tear out, attack, to cut off.

### [zad](/keys/ZD) - 
> proud, haughty.

### [chabah](/keys/ChBA) - 
> to conceal.

### [hebed](/keys/HBD) - 
> garment, covering.

## Greek/Latin:

### [gi](/greek?word=gi) (Gr) - 
> Earth (see also [2](2), [29](29), [38](38), [47](47), [56](56), [65](65), [74](74), [83](83)).

### See Also:

- [30](30)
- [2](2)
