## 12 - Twelve
> 3x2x2. 12: reversal, suspended mind.  The power of 2 manifested through the agency of 1. The outpouring of the powers of subconsciousness (2) through the fixation of self-consciousness in acts of attention (1). This is attained by practices which quiet the mind and suspend the formation of chains of ideas.

> 12 = 3 x 4. 7 = 3 + 4. Key 12 is a symbol of the multiplication of the power of the Emperor by the generative potency of the Empress.

> 12: zodiacal signs; 7: planets known to the ancient astronomers. 12 is associated with the idea of completeness, because 12 months and 12 signs of the zodiac round out a year.

---

### [The Twelfth Path](/keys/B)
> The twelfth path (Beth, joining Kether to Binah) is called the Intelligence of Transparency because it is the image of that phase of Gedulah (literally, "of that wheeling of Gedulah") which is the source of vision in those who behold apparitions. *[The Book of Formation]*

Conferred by knowledge of the 12th path:

> *"Beth - He is above all afflictions and all fears."* [Eliphas Levi, Transcendental Magic]

> *"I am the Transparent Intelligence, penetrating all veils of ignorance with the light of life eternal."* [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom]

> The adjective Transparency or Light ([Bahir](/keys/BHIR)) [בהיר] means clear, bright, transparent, lucid. Light in Hebrew is [אור], [Aur](/keys/AVR). This light is universally diffused. The Hebrew account of creation says light manifested prior to the formation of luminaries, suggesting that the self-conscious attentive power of Beth is necessary to concentrate these units of diffised power into a central focus. Note that [Bahir](/keys/BHIR), בהיר has the same numerical value of word אויר, [Fiery](/keys/AVIR).

---

### [Key 12: Hanged Man](/keys/M)

- Mem (**מ**): "Waters"
- Stable Intelligence. See [The 23rd Path](23)
- Reversal
- Suspended Mind
- Neptune
- Blue / G-sharp

---

### [Letter-name Vav](/keys/VV) - וו
> nail, hook, pin. Something to support something else which hangs from it. Corresponding to [Key 5, The Hierophant](5). The [16th path](16) of Vav "veils the name of Him, the fortunate one" (הוא). Thus the Hierophant may be considered to be a symbol for the cosmic self, Yekhidah acting as the inner teacher of mankind. Vav represents also the Heart, seat of interior hearing or the ego in Tiphareth, suggesting that the seed the 6th Sephira is preexistent in Kether, the First. see [53](53), [177](177), [158](158), [508](508), [32](32), [168](168), [331](331), [506](506), [415](415), [6](6).

---

### [avah](/keys/AVH) - אוה
> desire, longing [Book of Tokens, Vav, page 71]. With different vowel points: to desire, wish, long for. Fabre D'Olivet: *"Action of longing ardently, desiring, inclining with passion."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 290]

---

### [azad](/keys/AZD) - אזד
> confirmed, concluded (Aramaic). In [Daniel 2:5](http://biblehub.com/daniel/2-5.htm) and [Daniel 2:8](http://biblehub.com/daniel/2-8.htm) the aramaic אזדא, [AZDA](/keys/AZDA), is used: the A.V. translation, "is gone," the Jewish translation, "is certain." Also "He departed, he went forth." Chaldean perhaps adj. "settled, firm, or decided." [C.F. The Talmud AZDA LThOMIH "decided to his purpose" (Daniel 2). The root perhaps akin to ShVTh IMD "to set", hence different from AVL, which most prefer since D=L, as ROD=ROL, and so they render AVDA MNI MLThA  "the word (i.e. decree) is gone forth (i.e. has been issued) from me."] From protestant Hebrew Dictionary.

---

### [chabab](/keys/ChBB) - חבב
> to cover, protect, love. see [10](10), [ChB](/keys/ChB).

---

### [ahab](/keys/AChAB) - אחאב
> [Jeremiah 29:21](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/29-21.htm). "Father's Brother." A prophet, denounced by Jeremiah. The second king of the Omir dynasty and early Israel's most conspicuous and important ruler (875-52 B.C.) Standard Bible Dictionary.

---

### [Hu or Hoa](/keys/HVA) - הוא
> He (3rd person singular), Lord. One of the Divine Names associated with Kether. Hu or Hvan was a Druids name of the Sun. Hu or Yu, a Babylonian God of the Sky, a very ancient God. Compare with Jah(/keys/IH), [Jao](/keys/IAO), Jupiter, Allah, Hu. Fabre D'Olivet: *"In a broad sense, the Being; the one who is: in a particular sense, a being; the one of whom one speaks, represented by the pronominal relations he, that one, this."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 328]

> - [Genesis 2:11](https://biblehub.com/genesis/2-11.htm): *"The name of the first is Pison: **that** is it which compasseth the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold"*
> - [Genesis 10:9](https://biblehub.com/genesis/2-11.htm): *"**He** was a mighty hunter before the LORD; that is why it is said, 'Like Nimrod, a mighty hunter before the LORD.'"* see also [hu-hayah](/keys/HVA-HIH) "he was".

---

### [khad](/keys/ChD) - חד
> sharp. Fabre D'Olivet: *"The power of division, expressed by the root אד which, arrested by the effort which results from its contraction with the elementary sign Cheth, becomes the image of relative unity. It is literally, a sharp thing, a point, a summit. The Arabic [word] presents in general, the ideas of terminating, determining, circumscribing, limiting. it is, in a more restricted sense, to grind; metaphorically, to punish. This root being reinforced in the verb [xxx], expresses the action of breaking through and excavating ground. As a noun it signifies literally the check. The point of anything whatever. Everything which pricks, everything which is extreme, initial: metaphorically, a drop of wine; gaiety, lively and piquant."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 347]

---

### [zeh](/keys/ZH) - זה
> This. Fabre D'Olivet: *"Every demonstrative, manifesting, radiant movement: every objective expressed in an abstract sense by the pronominal relations this, that, these, those."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 340]

> - [Genesis 5:1](https://biblehub.com/genesis/5-1.htm): *"**This** is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created man, in the likeness of God made he him;"*
> - [Genesis 31:38](https://biblehub.com/genesis/31-38.htm): *"**This** twenty years have I been with thee; thy ewes and thy she goats have not cast their young, and the rams of thy flock have I not eaten."*
> - [Genesis 31:41](https://biblehub.com/genesis/31-41.htm): *"**Thus** have I been twenty years in thy house; I served thee fourteen years for thy two daughters, and six years for thy cattle: and thou hast changed my wages ten times"*
> - [Exodus 30:13](https://biblehub.com/exodus/30-13.htm): *"**This** they shall give, every one that passeth among them that are numbered, half a shekel after the shekel of the sanctuary: (a shekel is twenty gerahs:) an half shekel shall be the offering of the LORD"*

---

### [dub](/keys/DVB) - דוב
> A bear. The [Aesch Mesch Mezareph, III, p. 24](http://levity.com/alchemy/aesch3.html) says: *'[Parzala](/keys/PRZLA), פרזלא, whose lesser number is 12, is of the same account as the name of that blood animal Dob, a Bear, whose number is 12 also. And this is that mystical thing, which is written [Daniel 7:5](http://biblehub.com/daniel/7-5.htm): "And behold another beast, a second like unto a bear, stood on its one side, and it had three ribs standing out in his mouth, between his teeth; and thus they said to it 'arise, eat much flesh.'" The meaning is, that in order to constitute the metallic kingdom, in the second place, iron is to be taken; in whose mouth or opening (which comes to pass in an earthen vessel) a threefold scoria is thrust out, from within its whitish nature."* see [318](318), [229](229).

---

### [bi](/keys/BI) - בי
> Please, pray! Fabre D'Olivet: *"Root analogous to the roots בו, בה, בא, which characterize the movement of a thing which advances, appears evident, comes opens, etc. This applies chiefly to the desire that one has to see a thing appear, an event occur, and that one expresses by would to God!"* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 304].

> - [Genesis 44:18](http://biblehub.com/genesis/44-18.htm) *"Then Judah went up to him [i.e. Joseph] and said, '**please**, my Lord, let your servant speak a word to my Lord. Do not be angry with your servant, though you are equal to pharaoh himself.'".*
> - [Genesis 43:20](https://biblehub.com/genesis/43-20.htm): *"And said, **O** sir, we came indeed down at the first time to buy food"*

---

### [Gog](/keys/GVG) - גוג
> Gog; A prince of Magog, and descendant of Reuben. #[259](259). [1 Chronicles 5:4](http://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/5-4.htm) *"The descendants of Joel: Shemiah his son, Gog, his son, Shimel his son..."* Fabre D'Olivet notes this spelling as GG  means *"That which extends to cover, to envelop... the roof of a tent."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 311].

---

### [Habah](/keys/HBH) - הבה
> A city of Edom, according to Mathers, in [S.S. p.2] Not found in scripture.

---

### [habah](/keys/HBH) - הבה
come; go to.

- [Genesis 11:4](https://biblehub.com/genesis/11-4.htm): *"And they said, **Go to**, let us build us a city and a tower, whose top may reach unto heaven; and let us make us a name, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth."*
- [Genesis 11:7](https://biblehub.com/genesis/11-7.htm): *"**Go to**, let us go down, and there confound their language, that they may not understand one another's speech"*
- [Exodus 1:10](https://biblehub.com/exodus/1-10.htm): *"**Come on**, let us deal wisely with them; lest they multiply, and it come to pass, that, when there falleth out any war, they join also unto our enemies, and fight against us, and so get them up out of the land."*

---

### [gat](/keys/GT) - גט
> Fabre D'Olivet: *"This root is not used in Hebrew. The arabic [word] denotes a thing which repulses the effort of the hand which pushes it."* Mathers also gives; a little book, pamphlet, letter in [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 2].

---

### [dagah](/keys/DGH) - דגה
> [dwagh](/keys/DGH). to grow, spawn, or multiply. (as noun) a fish (fem.). As a verb: to move rapidly, to spawn, to become numerous, to multiply. Note the combination of the idea of rapid movement with that of the production of seed, or spawn. *"A feminine form of the nouns 'to multiply (like fish),' suggesting the rapid multiplication of ideas in the mind which results from contact with the inner teacher."* [Gematria of the letter names].

---

### [Daleth-Cheth](/keys/D.Ch) - ד ח
> Venus in Cancer.

---

### [abedah](/keys/ABDH)
destroyed. [Exodus 10:7](https://biblehub.com/exodus/10-7.htm): *"And Pharaoh's servants said unto him, How long shall this man be a snare unto us? let the men go, that they may serve the LORD their God: knowest thou not yet that Egypt is **destroyed**?"*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Gaza](/greek?word=gaza) (Gr) - γαζα
> Treasury, riches. Originally a Persian word. Refers to the first path as the source whence all the riches of manifestation are drawn. see [3](3), [20](20), [21](21).

---

### English Gematria:

- [M.](/english?word=M.) *([Fama p.5](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/5))*

---

### See Also:

- [3](3)
- [Bible Wheel: 12](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=12)
