## 13 - Thirteen
prime.

### [The Thirteenth Path](/keys/G)
> *"The thirteenth path (Gimel, joining Kether to Tiphareth) is called the Uniting Intelligence, or [Conductive Intelligence of Unity](/keys/ShKL.MNHIG.HAChDVTh), because it is the essence of glory and the perfection of the truths of spiritual unities."* [The Book of Formation]. see [882](882), [108](108), [424](424).

Conferred by knowledge of the 13th path:

> *"Gimel - He reigns with all heaven and is served by all hell."* [Eliphas Levi, Transcendental Magic]

> *"I am the Uniting Intelligence, linking all opposites together with the bonds of perfect peace."* [Meditations of the Paths of Wisdom]

---

### [Key 13: Death](/keys/N)

- Nun: fish (נ)
- [Imaginative Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.DMIVNI). [The Twenty-Fourth Path](24)
- Scorpio
- Transformation, Motion
- The 8th house: inheritance, death
- Blue-Green / G Natural

---

### [Echad](/keys/AChD) - אחד
> Unity, one; alone, solitary. [[Deut. 6:4](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/6-4.htm)] "Hear, O Israel: The LORD our God is one LORD." The alchemical first matter is ONE, and contains within itself all that is needed.

---

### [Agdah](/keys/AGDH) - אגדה
Bundle, bunch; band, company. A joining together, a vaulted arch, the sky. A unity composed of the combination of parts.

---

### [Ahebah](/keys/AHBH) - אהבה
Love.

---

### [Ayeb](/keys/AIB) - איב
To violate; to asperse; a female enemy; hatred; to be hostile, be an enemy of. "Hate," the opposite pole of Love. Both are the same basic emotion.

> "Philosophers are said to extract their stone out of seven stones, the two chief whereof are of a diverse nature an efficacy, the one infused invisible sulphur, and the other spiritual mercury; one induceth heat and dryness, the other cold and moisture. By this we gain the idea that sulphur and Mercury are really invisible principles, operating in the mixture, and while it is often portrayed as a 'love of the element' it is manifestly a fight or mastery between opposite principles [here note that AHBH, love is 13, which is also the the number of AIB, to violate, asperse, to act as an enemy], that is, of heat and cold, dryness and moisture. [Here recall the words of the Kybalion: 'Opposites are identical in nature, but different in degree; extremes meet, all truths are but half-truths; all paradoxes may be reconciled.'] The heat and dryness eventually conquer the cold and moisture, so that what was liquid passes permanently into a dry state, but in the process the ptency of the fire principle is sublimated and intensified to a degree unknown to modern science." *[D.D. Bryant, the Art of Alchemy, VI, 7]*

---

### [Bahu](/keys/BHV) - בהו
Emptiness, chaos, void. The primary chaos is the stuff thoughts are made of. The alchemist's first matter is also called a "void". Applied to the first state fo the earth. Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"An abyss, a thing whose depth cannot be fathomed, physically as well as morally (see [HH](/keys/HH)). The arabic [word], as onomatopoeic root characterizes astonishment, surprise."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored]. See 19, 76, 411, 1152

> [Genesis 1:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-2.htm): *"And the earth was without form, and **void**; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters."*

---

### [Dageh](/keys/DAGH) - דאגה
Anxiety, care, grief. This word represents performing a "creative abortion". It is through worry that we send suggestions to subconsciousness to un-make what was previously created.

---

### [gehah](/keys/GHH) - גהה
> That which organizes; that which gives life to the organs: health, and metaphorically, medicine.

> [Proverbs 17:22](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/17-22.htm): *"A merry heart doeth good like a medicine: but a broken spirit drieth the bones."*

---

### [Giy](/keys/GI) - גי
Valley

---

### Greek/Latin:

---

### [gi](/greek?word=gi) (Gr) - γι
> Earth (see also [2](2), [29](29), [38](38), [47](47), [56](56), [65](65), [74](74), [83](83)).

---

### See Also:

- [4](4)
