## 14 - Fourteen

> 2x7. 14 is the numerical value of gold -- the gold of enlightenment, verified truth. 14: The power of 4 manifested through the agency of 1; the principle of reason (4), expressed through the agency of concentration (1). The verification of a hypothesis arrived at by reasoning is carried out by concentration. Concentration is the focusing of the vibratory activity of the serpent fire at a definite point in the brain. The means whereby concentration is direced from above toward a plane below the Magician's garden.

> 1+4=5, the number of the Hierophant. The goal of verification is reached by following carefully the instruction imparted by the "still, small voice" of intuition. 5 is also the number of adaptation and desire, and proper adaptation of the forces of desire through intelligent direction results in the attainment of higher consciousness.

> Height of the great pyramid in proportion to the length of its base line. Osirus body was divide into 14 parts. *[The Gematria Notebooks of Paul Foster Case]*

### [The Fourteenth Path](/keys/D)
> The fourteenth path (Daleth, joining Chokmah to Binah) is called the Luminous Intelligence, because it is the essence of that which is the instructor in the secret foundations of holiness and perfection. *[The Book of Formation]*

Conferred by knowledge of the 14th path:

> *"Daleth - He disposes of his own health and life, and can equally influence that of others.* [Eliphas Levi, Transcendental Magic]

> *I am the Luminous Intelligence, enlighting my entire experience with the Wisdom of the Ages."* [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom]

### [Tarot Key 14: Temperance](/keys/S)

- ס [Samekh](60). Tent-peg. Support.
- Wrath, Verification
- Sagittarius
- Blue

[Key 14](/keys/S) depicts the EGO performing or "proving" several different channels of the Tree of Life simultaneously:

- The torch in his right hand is reminiscent of the lantern in [Key 9: The Hermit](/keys/I)
- The orange disk on his head is reminiscent of [Key 10: Wheel of Fortune](/keys/K)
- The purple mountains being split by a yellow ribbon is reminiscent of the parting curtains in [Key 11: Justice](/keys/L)
- The stream of water pouring from the vase in his left hand is reminiscent of the [Key 12: Hanged Man](/keys/M), also known as the Path of Mem ("waters").
- The eagle represents [Key 13: Death](/keys/N), since the eagle is an emblem for Scorpio. Also the five yods dripping from the torch above the eagle represent 5x10=50 (since yod=10), and 50 is the value of the letter Nun. Nun also means "fish", which is something that eagles eat regularly.
- The pool under the Angel's feet represents [Yesod](80), the [9th Sephirah](9), which is the terminus of the [Path of Samekh](/keys/S)
- The brown lion represents [Key 15: The Devil](/keys/O), which depicts the condition experienced when we allow our "pride" to override our discernment. This lion also reminds us of [Key 8: Strength](/keys/T) which depicts a roaring lion being tamed by another blonde figure in a white robe.

There are two important "tests" begin performed here: the first test is our own test whereby we "prove" the truth of the Ancient Wisdom teachings; the second test is administered by the EGO who "proves" our own fitness to receive more advanced teachings.

### [eychah](/keys/AChH) - אחה
> to join, stitch, piece together. See [ACh](/keys/ACh).

### [dahy](/keys/DI) - די
> sufficing; enough, sufficient.

### [Daleth/Yod](/keys/D.I) - ד י
> Venus in Virgo.

### [dode](/keys/DVD) - דוד
> uncle; friend, relative; in medieval times, philosopher

### [dude](/keys/DVD) - דוד
> pot, kettle, boiler. From a root meaning "to boil, to be agitated." see [137](137) (Latin), [155](155), [805](805).

### [David](/keys/DVD) - דוד
> beloved, lover, to love, to compose love songs, friendship, caressing. With different vowel points: to receive, to adopt, to comprehend, to contain; a basket. "The root of this name is a Hebrew verb spelled with the same letters, meaning primarily "to boil, to cook." Figuratively, it signifies "to love," and is fundamentally a verb designating love between the sexes. thus, "David" means "Love" or "Beloved." ...often the alchemical books assure us that the Great Work, or operation of the Sun, is nothing other than "coction," that is, cooking or boiling. What the alchemist are hiding behind this veil of language is the simple truth that love is the fulfilling of the law, that the pure gold of the Absolute is found through the working of the gentle heat of love, that the sacrifice of sacrifices is a broken and contrite heart purified in the fires of love, that only through love can the true pattern of that perfect golden cube, the New Jerusalem, be rightly perceived and understood." [True and Invisible, p. 138] see [107](107), [222](222), [155](155).

### [ahtahd](/keys/ATD) - אטד
> a thorn, a spine, the piercer. The basic meaning is phallic. Tradition associates אטד with christ's crown of thorns. This seems to have little basis in fact, but is good symbolism nevertheless. Also, "the fastening or the fastener." From a verb "to pierce, to penetrate, to fasten in." Thorns are symbols of union, connection, joining, fastening, association, accumulation and aggeragation. These ideas are fundamental in relation to Briah, the Creative World of Water, where archetypal ideas are combined with each other. Note that the rose, a symbol of love, has thorns. see [115](115).

### [debakh](/keys/DBCh) - דבח
> A sacrifice, an offer, offering (aramaic). Both verb and noun, refers to the sacrifice of animals. Symbolizes control of the animal nature, energized by the Mars force. Refers to the fact that the life-power offers itself in an act of creation.

### [hahdah](/keys/HDH) - הדה
> to stretch forth the hand; to show the way; to seize, lay hold of. Note the Daleth between the two Heh's. That self offering is also a self-extension or self-direction. see [4](4), [104](104), [250](250), [41](41), [72](72), [86](86), 158.

### [geyah](/keys/GVH) - גוה
> Body, or back. Root of גויה substance, a body. see [24](24).

### [GVH?](/keys/GVH) - גוה
> Every kind of organ dilated to give passage to the vital spirits, or closed to retain them: every expansion, every conclusion: that which serves as tegument; the body, in general; the middle of things: that which preserves them as, the sheath of a sword; etc."

### [yad](/keys/ID) - יד
> hand. power, strength, place, monument. variant spelling of letter name Yod. Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"The sign of potential manifestation, united to the root אד, image of every emanation, of every divisional cause, forms a remarkable root, whose purpose is to produce ideas relative to the hand of man. In the literal and restricted sense, the hand; in the figurative and general sense, it is the faculty, executive force, power of acting, dominion: it is every kind of aid, instrument, machine, work, term; administration, liberality, faith, protection: it is the symbol of relative unity, and of the power of division; it is the margin, boarder, edge; the point by which one grasp things; it is the place, the point that one indicates, etc."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.363]

### [zahab](/keys/ZHB) - זהב
> gold. Solar energy, the alchemical "gold", first matter and medicine. The gold of enlightenment, the philosophical gold which represents perfect verified truth. see [200](200), [440](440). Aesch Mezareph, Qabalistic alchemical treatise, says that when זהב is written alone, without any qualifying adjectives *"It is refereed to Geburah, because gold cometh from the North."* This is a reference to [Job 37:22](http://biblehub.com/job/37-22.htm) where the original has זהב for the word translated "fair weather" in the English Bible. North is assigned to Geburah, the sphere of Mars. Like the Latin Aurum, which meant originally "the burning thing," זהב signifies primarily "That which shines." as a verb זהב means "to glitter like gold."

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"That which is shown, appears, shines, reflects the light; in an abstract sense, an object."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.340]

> Basil Valentine: *"He that knows exactly this golden seed or magnet, and searcheth thoroughly into its properties, he hath the true root of life, and may attain that which his heart longs for, wherefore entreat all true lovers of mineral science, and sons of art, diligently to inquire after this metallic seed or root, and be assured that it is not an idle chimera or dream, but a real and certain truth."*

> Mrs. Atwood: *"It was from such an internal intimacy, and central searching of the mystery, that the paracelsian ?crollius? tells us he came to know that the same light and mineral vapor, which produces gold with the bowels of the earth, is also in man [Virgo region], and that the same is the generating spirit of all creatures."* [A suggestive Inquiry into Alchemy, p. 151]

### [gay](/keys/GIA) - גיא
> deep gorge with lofty sides; rising ground. The "Earth" of Geburah. One of the 7 earths in the diagram of the 4 seas, so used it means "rising ground." Also undulating ground.

> Fabre D'Olivet: *"Valley, gorge, depth. The Arabic [word] indicates a place where water remains stagnant and becomes corrupt through standing."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.313]

> see [291](291), [50](50), [365](365), [105](105), [302](302), [432](432), [337](337).

### [dawy](/keys/DI) - די
> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"The sign of natural abundance united to that of manifestation, constitutes the true root characteristic of this sign. This root develops all ideas of sufficiency and of sufficient reason; of abundant cause and of elementary divisibility. די and דה: that which is fecund, fertile, abundant, sufficient; that which contents, satisfies, suffices. The Arabic [word] indicates, in general, the distribution of things, and helps to distinguish them. The root [word] which preserves a greater conformity with the Hebraic root די, signifies literally possession."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp.321-322]

### [habhahb](/keys/HBHB) - הבהב
> a gift; a sacrificial offering. Refers to the fact that the Life-power offers itself in an act of creation. see אטד, [atad](/keys/ATD).

