## 15 - Fifteen
> 3x5. Σ5 = 15. 15 is the theosophical extension of 5. Thus Hod as a number,
denotes the full expression of the powers symbolized by 5.

> 1/168 of a "week of times" (2520 years). *[The Gematria Notebooks of Paul Foster Case]*

The combined ideas of the number 15 suggest the notion of "original sin." Once Adam eats of the fruit of the "Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil" (Aleph = 15), he realizes his own sinful nature. This sin is "original" because it was committed before he became aware of it. Adam is now naked, as he appears in [Key 15](/keys/15). He stands before God in all his "[splendor](/keys/HVD)," and stands ready to receive God's [Judgement](/keys/Sh).

The Path of Return is the "Tree of Life" (Aleph = 26), and corresponds to Vav-Heh in יהוה. Note that [Vav-Heh](/keys/V.H) has the value of 11, which is also the value of the [Eleventh Path](11) of Aleph. Adam now realizes that he is [The Fool](/keys/A), as well as the ripened fruit of the "Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil", and is ready to plant his own seed which will grow into the "Tree of Life" which is represented by יהוה, the union of the Father and the Son.

### [The Fifteenth Path](/keys/H)
> *The fifteenth path (Heh, joining Chokmah to Tiphareth) is called the [Constituting Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.MOMID) because it constitutes creative force (or, essence of creation) in pure darkness. According to masters of contemplation, this is that darkness mentioned in Scripture: "Thick darkness as swaddling-band for it."* [The Book of Formation]. see [164](164), [514](514).

> Heh - He can neither be surprised by misfortune, nor overwhelmed by disasters, nor conquered by his enemies. *[Eliphas Levi, Transcendental Magic]*

I am the Constituting Intelligence, erecting universal Law, and restoring the King of Kings to the Throne of Thrones.

### [Key 15: The Devil](/keys/O)

- [Ayin](/keys/O) (ע): Eye
- Renewing Intelligence - [The 26th Path](26)
- Bondage
- Mirth
- Capricorn
- Blue-Violet / A Natural

### [Jah](/keys/IH) - יה
> Wisdom. The divine name attributed to Chokmah. A verbal symbol of the dual potency which brings the whole Tree of Life into manifestation Yod stands for אב, the Father. Heh stands for Aima, the Mother. The short form of יהוה, used principally in Hebrew poetry. 

> *...This does not mean that C.R.C. [At age 15] had yet attained the Grade corresponding to the second circle. It does mean that the impulse which stirs us into activity when we begin to long for something higher than five-sense experience is one which originates in the celestial wisdom. From this point on the Tree of Life is known also to Qabalists as the 'Father', and it is the image of the father in our minds which actually moves us, like the prodigal son, to leave the limitations of the five-senses life, and make a journey back home to the Holy Land.* [Paul Case, True and Invisible, p67]

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"יה. Absolute life manifested, eternity, the eternally living being: God. The arabic [word] has lost all the intellectual ideas developed by the Hebraic root, but the Syriac [word] and the Samaritan [word], signify alike the Absolute Being." [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.363]*

### [Hod](/keys/HVD) - הוד
> Splendor, Glory, the [8th Sephirah](8). From a Hebrew root derived from a noun designating the female breast, thus expressing ideas of nourishment, satisfaction of hunger. see [8](8), [2080](2080). Hod signifies prominence, eminence, importance. A consequence of expansion from within of the essence of the 2nd sephirah Chokmah. (Observe that on the Tree of Life, Chokmah and Hod are diametrically opposite.) The Perfect intelligence, seat of the personal intellect, is a focal point in which the will-force from Geburah, the image-making power of Tiphareth and the desire-force of Netzach are mingled. Connected with the intellectual operations of human self-consciousness. The full expression of the powers of Geburah (5), of which Hod is the reflection. Theosophic extension of 5 and the powers of Heh, the emperor. הוד may be read "Heh and Daleth," a combination of reason (Emperor), imagination (Empress), and intuition (the Hierophant). The desire for something different which disintegrates old forms in its early stages (Peh, the path between Hod and Netzach). see [48](48), [193](193), [370](370), [550](550), [585](585), [720](720). *[Gematria PFC]*

> *"Give some thought to the Sephirah Hod, whence this Path descends. Consider its name letter by letter, in relation to the Keys of Rota. Then you may see that הוד has through Rota a link with the Path through which the Mezla descends to it from Geburah. Again, consider the gematria of הוד and its relation to יה. Once again, ה is the letter of the Emperor and ד the letter of the Empress, with ו between them to represent both אב and בן, and to intimate a conjunction also. This should put you on the track of the deeper significance of the 31st Path. That is to say, insofar as the specific nature of the descending influence is concerned."* [39th Communication 3/8/48]

> "Three other Truths, based upon the esoteric meaning of the letters in the word Hod [הוד], are taught in the grade of Practicus. They are:

> - [The Emperor, Key 4](4): The original creative power, the rational life that makes, frames and composes the universe, directs every detail of cosmic manifestation, hence there are no accidents. Nothing happens by chance. Consequently every detail of any persons experience is a particular manifestation of the directing power, a particular note in the universal symphony. That directing power is the true seer of all we see, the true knower of all we know, the supreme authority over all creation. It only is the indivisible self...
> - [The Hierophant, Key 5](5): The self is enthroned above the level of personal consciousness, and from that superior station directs by its infallible word those who have to ears to hear...
> - [The Empress, Key 3](3): All substance is mental substance, hence all forms are mental images. The production of mental images is the function of the universal subconsciousness, and from that functions all forms, on all planes, have their immediate origin." *[Grade of Practicus, pp. 194-195, True and Invisible]*

> *[Hermetic Museum I, p. 59] "The intellect shall be silver, the memory golden."*  Paul Case: "Note well, the moon is intellectual apprehension. Sun is right recollection', viz. 'the collecting intelligence' of [Path 30](30), or Resh. The end of the work at the red stage (sun) is really a memory of something always true, but temporarily forgotten."

### [zub](/keys/ZVB) - זוב
> to flow (as water), to melt, to gush. As a noun it designates the menstrual flux of women. An overflowing, abounding. *[Gematria PFC]*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"Action of swarming insects; of boiling. seething, as water." From the root אב. "The idea of reflected movement contained in the root זא united by contraction to that of all generating propagation, represented by the root אב, forms a root whose object is to depict every swarming, tumultuous movement, as that of insects; or every effervescent movement as that of water which is evaporated by fire." [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 339]*

### [chabah](/keys/ChBH) - חבה
> to cover, conceal, hide. *[Gematria PFC]*

### [Abib](/keys/ABIB) - אביב
> the month of Exodus and Passover and resurrection. Its literal meaning is "blossom," or, "ear (of grain)." As the month of "coming forth" from the symbolic "darkness of Egypt," Abib corresponds to Chokmah, as the first projection from [Kether](620). see [73](73). Corresponds to the sign of Leo where Sol has his abode.

> [Deuteronomy 16:1](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/16-1.htm): *"Observe the month of Abib, and keep the passover unto the Lord thy God: for in themeth of Abib the Lord thy God brought thee forth our of Egypt by night.*

### [ayd](/keys/AID) - איד
> distress, calamity, misery, misfortune.

> Fabre D'Olivet: *"A vapor, an exhalation, a contagion, that which is spread without."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 293]

### [Hehah](/keys/HHH) - ההה
> 41st name of Shemhamphorash, short from, associated with the 5th quinance (21°-25°) of Aquarius.

### [hi](/keys/HI) - הי
> "Lamentation." [Ezekiel 2:9](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/2-9.htm): *"Then I looked, and I saw a hand stretched out to me in it was a scroll,"*  [2:10](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/2-9.htm): *"which he unrolled before me. On both sides of it were written words of lamentations and mourning and **woe.**"*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"הי. Root analogous to the vital root הה whose properties it manifests. The arabic [word] represents the pronounial relation she, that, this. As a verb, this root develops... the action of arranging, or preparing things and giving them an agreeable form... הי onomatopoeic root expressing all painful and sorrowful affections." [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.330]*

### [zach](/keys/ZCh) - זח
> He who impels; to force, to move, to impel. Given in Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.3]. This word does not occur in scripture or the Hebrew Lexicon. However, Fabre D'Olivet writes of the root: *"זה. Every difficult movement made with effort; that which is done laboriously; a presumptuous, tenacious spirit. The aramaic [word] develops the same idea. The verb... expresses in general a vehement action of any nature whatsoever; an particular to rain in torrents."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.341]

### [chagad](/keys/ChGD) - חגד
> a locust

### [ga'avah](/keys/GAVH) - גאוה
> elevation, majesty; also, arrogance, haughtiness, pride.

### [Aboha](/keys/ABVHA) - אבוהא
> Angel of the 3rd decante of Sagittarius.

### [gaboha](/keys/GBHH) - גבהה
> high.

## Latin

### XV (Lt).
> The last 2 letters of the word LVX ([65](65)). Minus the L (to instruct). Suggests the absence of the equalibrating, directive power symbolized by [Key 11](11). [Key 15](15), the Devil, represents the One Force, as it operates apart from human knowledge ([Lamed](/keys/LMD)). and human direction. yet XV is composed of the numbers V ([5](5)) and X ([10](10)), the [Wheel of Fortune](/keys/K), the world of objective appearances and [Hierophant](/keys/V), the principle of consciousness.

### See Also

- [6](6)
- Σ15 = [120](120)

