## 18 - Eighteen
3x3x2. 1/40 of a "week of times."

### [The Eighteenth Path](/keys/Ch) - ח
> *The eighteenth path (Cheth, joining Binah to Geburah) is called the [Intelligence of the House of Influence](1217); and from the interior walls of its perfections the arcana flow down, with the hidden meanings concealed in their shadow, and therefrom is union with the innermost reality of the Most High.* [The Book of Formation] see [saykel beth ha-shefah](/keys/ShKL.BITh.HShPO), [412](412), [455](455), [1217](1217)

Conferred by knowledge of the 18th path:

> *"Cheth - To find the philosophical stone.* [Eliphas Levi, Transcendental Magic]

I am the Intelligence of the House of Influence, and through me flow all secrets from the Great Mother. [eheyeh saykel beth ha-Shefah](/keys/AHIH.ShKL.BITh.HShPO)

### [The Moon](/keys/Q) - ק

- [Qoph](100): Back of the head (ק)
- Organization, Sleep
- [Corporeal Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.MVGShM). [The Twenty-Ninth Path](28)
- Pisces
- Violet-Red / B-Natural

### [chai](/keys/ChI) - חי
> life, living. see [23](23), [9](9), [27](27), [36](36), [45](45), [54](54), [63](63), [72](72), [81](81), [90](90).

### [davach](/keys/DVCh) - דוח
> to purify. Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"דוח. Action of forcing, necessitating, constraining; action of expulsion, evacuation, etc."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 321]

### [IAVA](/keys/IAVA) - יאוא
> Notariqon for "[yehi aur wehi aur](/keys/IHI.AVR.VIHI.AVR)." [Genesis 1:3](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-3.htm): *"And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.".*

### [aibah](/keys/AIBH) - איבה
> hatred. Fabre D'Olivet comments: The root *"איב. Every idea of antipathy, enmity, animadversion. It is an effect of the movement of contraction upon the volitive center אי by the sign of interior activity ב [Beth]."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 292]

### [ahbi](/keys/AHBI) - אהבי
> my favorite, my beloved.

### [chattaw](/keys/ChTA) - חטא
> to miss the target; to sin.

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: The root *"חט. The sign of effort united to that of resistance, constitutes a root whence come all ideas of frustrated hope; of failure, sin, error. The arabic [word] signifies properly to cut in small morsels; and [word] to pose, depose; place, replace: to lower, humble, reduce, etc.*

> - *חט or חטט (intens.) That which misses the mark, which is at fault, which sins in any manner whatsoever.*
> - *חוט (comp.) The root טח, symbol of effort united to resistance, being considered from another viewpoint, furnishes the restricted idea of spinning, and n consequence, every kind of thread, and of sewing; so that from the sense of sewing, comes that of mending; metaphorically, that of amendment, restoration: whence it results that the word חטא, which signifies a sin, signifies also an expiation."*

> [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 349]

### [davach](/keys/DVCh) - דוח
> to purify.

## Greek/Latin:

### [Gaia](/latin?word=gaia) (Lt)
> Greek goddess of the earth. [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaia_%28mythology%29)

### [Dei](/latin?word=Dei) (Lt)
> of God. see [74](74), [126](126), [56](56).

### [P.D.](/latin?word=P.D) (Lt)
> Initials of one of the founders of the Rosicrucian order, according to the Fama Fraternitiatis.

### See Also

- [9](9)