## 19 - Nineteen
prime.

> 19 is the age at which brother C.R.C. finishes his initiatory practices at Damcar, according to the Rosicrucian Fama. *"...the perfection of what amounts to a new vehicle for the God-self or Christos... this age is symbolized by the [19th Key](/keys/R) of the Tarot, which shows a little boy and little girl, the children typify the regenerated human personality, which turns its back on the wall of the limitations of the five-sense consciousness and begins to learn the first steps of the dance of life, in the fairy ring or circle of the true christ-consciousness."* [True and Invisible, p79]

### [The Nineteenth Path](/keys/T) - ט
> *The nineteenth path (Teth, joining Chesed to Geburah) is called the [Intelligence of the Secret of all Spiritual Activites](1766) because of the influence spread by it from the supreme blessing and the supernal glory.* [The Book of Formation]. see [70](70), [597](597), [749](749), [1766](1766).

> *Teth - To enjoy the universal medicine* [Eliphas Levi - Transcendental Magic]

I am the Intelligence of the Secret of all Spiritual Activities, declaring Eternal Truth through the Sacred Silence. [Eheyeh saykel sod ha-pehulloth ha-ruachnioth](/keys/AHIH.ShKL.SVD.HPOVLVTh.HRVChNIOTh)

### [The Sun](/keys/R)

- Resh: head or countenance (ר)
- Collective Intelligence. [The Thirtieth Path](30)
- The Sun
- Regeneration
- Fertility / Sterility
- Orange / D Natural


### [Chavah](/keys/ChVH) - חוה
> Eve (Life), "Mother of all Living." Also: to be, exist, live, to say, relate, make manifest, to bend, to curve; a round tent, a circle of tents, a village, one of the names of Quicksilver, to show or declare. Mother Eve personifies what Hindus philosophy calls Prakriti, and what the Egyptians worshipped as mother Isis. She is nature, the alchemical woman, and the alchemical moon, or silver. In [Key 19](/keys/R), she is pictured as little girl, and the little boy is a symbol of the regenerated self-consciousness. The two are shown hand in hand, because at this stage of development the manifesting power (Eve, Isis, Prakriti) is transformed from the dark, terrible mother, into what is hinted at in [Proverbs 7:4](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/7-4.htm) which reads: *"say unto wisdom, thou are my sister, and call understanding thy Kinswoman"* [See Lesser Holy Assembly 21: 728-31 for commentary]

> *"... Nature is terrible to those who do not understand her. To the initiated, regenerated personality she is a joyous companion in the dance of life... When one becomes a true initiate, the heavenly order is called 'little sister,' for it perceived as being the macrocosmic manifestation of the perfect law of liberty proceeding form the god-self dwelling within, at the center. Our dance of life then accommodates its measures of personal activity to the music of the spheres. The mask of terror worn by the 'mysterious power,' prakriti, it torn off."* [OP. Cit. p. 128-130] see [20](20).

> Eve is Heva, the serpent-principle, or life [D.D. Bryant]. N.B. the number 19 relates to the serpent principle through [AVIB](/keys/AVIB), **אויב**, an enemy, or which [AIVB](/keys/AIVB), **איוב**, "Job", the earthly afflicted one, is a metathesis. *[The Gematria Notebooks of Paul Foster Case]*

> This number is also that of [DIH](/keys/DIH), **דיה**, to be black. Thus Adam=red and Eve=Black, and thus may it be said that blackness is the 'mother of all living,' which brings us ever close to the truth, since blackness is the absence of color, and represents what the Hindus call Akasha, the primary mode of Prakriti, which is none other than the black egg represented by zero, and by the abyss of Jacob Boehme; which may be regarded as the universal subjective consciousness, the first mother of first matter. Thus D.D.B. speaks the exact truth when he says that the earlier stages in the development of the stone can only be sensed, metaphysically, apprehended by every subtle changes in the matter." [Paul Case on D.D. Bryant's Art of Alchemy, VI, 6] see [45](45), [53](53), [139](139), [358](358).

> *The bride is [Malkuth](/keys/MLKVTh), and [Malkuth](/keys/MLKVTh) is [496](496), a perfect number. Furthermore, [496](496) adds to **19,** the number of חוה, Eve, the Mother who is also the Bride. In חוה are beginning and end, for 1 is beginning and 9 is end, and their sum is [10](10), the Kingdom. So is [10](10) the letter Yod also, and the Yod in יהוה stands for Chokmah, the Father. [9th Communication, 5/15/47]*. see [496](496), [89](89).

> *...throughout the literature of ageless wisdom we have endless repetitions of the thought that the worlds of form are brought forth by sound, and continued by it. This doctrine is even hidden in plain sight in the Hebrew scriptures, where Eve is said to be the "Mother of all living.' The verbal form of this name means, 'To manifest, to show forth.' But the first letter of Eve in Hebrew, is Cheth, and to this Qabalist attribute speech. The יהוה generated. The third letter is Heh, which indicates definition (being the definite article) and also vision. Thus the very name of Eve is, to a Qabalist, a formula of the creative process."* [Paul Case, *Classics of Ageless Wisdom,* 1931, page 28]

> [Chavah](/keys/ChVH): This word is used in [Genesis 3:20](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-20.htm): *"So Adam called his wife's name Eve because she was the mother of all living."*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"Here is a name where the changing of the vowel into consonant has caused a strange metamorphosis. The name which, according to the allusion that Moses makes, ought to signify, and signify effectively, elementary existence, being derived from the absolute verb, הוה, to be/being, by the sole reinforcement of the initial vowel Heh, into Cheth has come to designate no more than a formless heap of matter, its aggregation, its mass; and by the hardening of the convertible sign Vav sanctioned by the Chaldaic punctuation, serves as verb only to indicate the inert and passive existence of things. The change brought about in the derivative verb הוה, has been even more terrible in the absolute verb, חוה; for this verb, destined to represent the Immutable Being, expresses only an endless calamity, as I have explained in speaking of the sacred name יהוה... As to the reasons for the alterations undergone by this proper noun I can only refer the reader to the name of the volitive faculty, אשה, [306](/keys/AShH), which, as we have seen, had preceded that of elementary existence חוה." [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.117-118]*

> According to F.J. Mayers: *"In אדם [Adam](/keys/ADM) ([45](45)) as spiritual man, the 'intelligent principle' איש [aish](/keys/AISh) ([311](311)), and its complementary, the 'volitive faculty' (אלשא) [alsha](/keys/ALShA) were unseparated elements of one being. But in physical humanity, איש becomes the male principle and אלשא the female. So in the physical state איש becomes synonymous with 'Husband,' and אישא [aisha](/keys/AIShA) with 'wife' or 'woman'. Thus the realization of sex-difference on the physical plane was the means by which Adam became able to be 'fruitful and multiply' and as every human being owes his or her being to his or her mother אישא, becomes the 'mother' of all 'being' and Adam gives her the new image 'Eve' 'Havah.' The name is derived directly from the verb הוה [HV-Ch or H-, unknown] = to be. By changing the initial Heh into Cheth and making the Vau as 'O' [V] into a consonant [V], the results is a work which denotes the 'realization; or 'materialization of being or beings."* [The Unknown God, page 208]

> Gaskell suggests that Eve, the wife of Adam is *"A symbol of the emotional-nature united to the mental-nature of the lower mind... And the mind recognizes the life-principle within the soul to be the emotion-nature, for it is the originator of former of all qualities that subsist, that is, of all qualities that have in them the germ of the higher life."* [Dictionary of all Scriptures and Myths, p. 254]

### [va-bohu](/keys/VBHV) - ובהו
> "and emptiness... chaotic condition." [Genesis 1:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-2.htm). Translated "and void." see [411](/keys/ThHV), תהו. There must be a reason for the use of two words which mean about the same thing.  see [Bohu](/keys/BHV), [13](13). *[Gematria PFC]*

### [Ahoz](/keys/AHVZ) - אהוז
> angel L.T.D. of Sagittarius. Lord of the triplicity by Day. see [30](30), [95](95), [155](155), [216](216), [95](95), [267](267), [351](351), [550](550), [657](657).

### [avib](/keys/AVIB) - אויב
> an enemy, foe.

### [Eiob](/keys/AIVB) - איוב
> Job. "The greatly afflicted one."

### [diah](/keys/DIH) - דיה
> to be black.

### [awkhi](/keys/AChI) - אחי
> my brother. [Genesis 4:9](http://biblehub.com/genesis/4-9.htm). *Then the LORD said to Cain, "Where is your brother Abel?" "I don't know," he replied. "Am I **my brother**'s keeper?"*

## Latin/Greek

### [CR](/latin?word=cr) (Lt)
> CR or KR and Roke (RC or RK). Words meaning respectively "Lamb" and "tenderness". Designations of the Christos particularly associated with the central figure of the rosicrucian allegory, named in the Fama Faternitatis. "Our Brother and Father C.R." see [220](220).

### [fama](/latin?word=fama) (Lt)
Fame. Part of the title [Fama Fraternitatis](165), the first Rosicrucian manifesto. See [165](165).

### See Also:

- [10](10)