## 20 - Twenty
> 2x2x5. In the Rosicrucian Fama, Brother C.R.C's 20th year was spent in a journey from Damcar to Egypt, a short stay in that country, and other journey to the place where he completed his work. see [444](444), [142](142) (Latin).

### [The Twentieth Path](/keys/I) - י
> The twentieth path (Yod, joining Chesed to Tiphareth) is called the Intelligence of Will because it forms all patterns, and to know this Intelligence is to konw all the reality of the Primordial Wisdom. *[The Book of Formation]*

> *"Yod - To be acquainted with the laws of perpetual motion, and to be in a posiiton to demonstrate the quadrature of the circle.* [Eliphas Levi, Transcendental Magic]

> *"I am the Intelligence of Will, knowing the way, the truth and the light."* [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom]

### [Key 20: Judgment](/keys/Sh) - ש

- [Shin](/keys/ShIN): Tooth (ש)
- Realization, Decision
- Perpetual Intelligence. [The Thirty-First Path](31)
- Pluto
- Fire
- Red / C-natural

### [Kaph](/keys/K) - כ
The Hand, in the act of grasping. See [Key 10: Wheel of Fortune](10)

> Written in The Word in September 1917 Case observes: *"in the pictorial alphabet of the early Semites, the sign for Kaph represented the palm of the Hand. From this pictograph two sets of implicits may be derived. The first is a development of ideas connected with the fact that the palm is the active working part of the hand, and all the implicits of this group have their origin in the verb 'to grasp'. The second chain of association begins with the universal belief that the palm is a map of life, which affords a skilled reader an accurate record of the past, and enables him to make a reliable forecast of future probabilities."* [The Secret Doctrine of the Tarot, p. 367]

> *"The Kaph is composed of three connected lines with rounded corners, forming the image of a crown lying on its side, as if resting on the head of the king while in a state of prostration or self-nullification ... The literal meaning of Kaph is palm ... placing palm on palm is an act and sign of subjugation, similar to the act of bowing before a king. Wheres in bowing one totally nullifies one's consciousness in the presence of the King, in placing palm on palm one enters into a state of supplication and prayer to the King to reveal new will from His Supernal Crown (Will) to His subjects."* [The Alef-Beit, Rabbi Ginsburgh]

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"This character as consonant, belongs to the guttural sound. As symbolic image it represents every hollow object, in general; in particular, the hand of man half closed. As grammatical sign, it is the assimilative sign, that of reflective and transient life: it is a sort of mould which receives and communicates indifferently all forms. This character is derived... from the aspiration Cheth, which comes from the vocal principle Heh, image of absolute life; but here it joins the expression or organic character Gimel, of which it is a sort of reinforcement. In Hebrew, it is the assimilative and concomitant article. Its movement in nouns and actions is similitude and analogy. The Hebraist grammarians, since they have neither included it among the heemanthes nor among the paragogics, have committed the grossest errors; they have merely regarded it as an inseparable article or an affix, and often have confused it with the word that it governs as article."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.368-369]

### [Letter name Yod](/keys/IVD) - יוד
> Hand (as a formative power), creative hand. The Qabalistic significance of יוד refers to it being a manual operation [C.F. "Immanuel", or "God with us"], performed by the aid of Mercury. But יוד must be rightly understood and all adepts are careful not to unveil this secret. *"Verily יוד is the seed of all the letters, and if thou hast eyes to see, in יוד is the secret of the covenant, and this secret is the [Peh-Heh](/keys/P.H), פה, for פה is 85, or היסוד, [Ha-Yesod](/keys/HISVD), the Foundation, and 85 is also מילה, the covenant which removeth concealment form the paternal Yod."* [10th Communication 5/19/47]. see [61](61), [80](80), [85](85).


### [dehyo](/keys/DIV) - דיו
> fluid darkness, ink. Darkness is an ancient symbol for all things pertaining to subconscious forces and activities. The secret of the [20th path](20), [Yod](/keys/I), is connected with the operation of the Mars force at subconscious levels. That is, the means whereby ideas are recorded in writing, the art said to be the invention of Hermes or Mercury, ruler of Virgo.

### [hiyah, hayah](/keys/HIH) - היה
> "It was." to cause to become; to be; produce, make. The divine creativity of Yod is nothing new. *"of whatsoever is, thou mayest say with truth, 'it was.'"* [Book of Tokens, p. 102]

### [khawzaw](/keys/ChZH) - חזה
> to have a vision of, to gaze at, to penetrate, pass through, to see, behold mentally, to comprehend, to see prophetically, to prophesy. [Job 8:17](http://biblehub.com/job/8-17.htm). All of these meanings correspond to the symbols of [Key 9](9).

> The active participle of the verb is the noun חזה, [Khozeh](/keys/ChZH), prophet, seer. Also contract, covenant. Also to select, to experience. The vision of the prophet is in truth a recollection of that which seems to belong to the past. see [107](107), [346](346), [701](701).

> Also Khawzeh [ChZH] chest, breast.

### [Heh-heh](/keys/HH-HH) - הה הה
> Letter name Heh (window) spelt in full. The Constituting Intelligence, attributed to Aries. see [10](10)

### [deviy](/keys/DVI) - דוי
> sickness, illness; melancholy. Putridity, loathsomeness, as 'putridity in my food', i.e. loathsome to me in [Job 6:6](http://biblehub.com/job/6-6.htm): *"Or can that which is unsavory [putrid] be eaten without salt? Or is there any taste in the white of an egg."* A direct reference to the fact that the intestinal region correlated with Yod (Virgo) is the great seat of infection and of the intoxications which produce melancholy. [Gematria of the Letter Names]

### [zahob](/keys/ZHVB) - זהוב
> Golden. [Godwin]. This word is not found in scripture or in the Hebrew Lexicon. Golden is the color of Tiphareth, sphere of the Sun. see [14](14), [1081](1081).

### [hattah](/keys/HTAH) - הטאה
> Sinful things, sin [Amos 9:8](http://biblehub.com/amos/9-8.htm): *"Surely the eyes of the sovereign Lord are on the sinful Kingdom. I will destroy it from the face of the Earth-yet I will not totally destroy the House of Jacob."* variant spelling, see [418](418).

### [Yehah](/keys/IHH) - יהה
> 62nd Name of Shemhamphorash, short from, associated with the 2nd Quinance of Gemini. see [51](51), [1525](1525).

### [akhavah](/keys/AChVH) - אחוה
> Brotherhood, fraternity; declaration, solution (of riddles). [Zechariah 11:14](http://biblehub.com/zechariah/11-14.htm)

## Latin/Greek:

### [H'gaza](/greek?word=h+gaza) (Gr) - η γαζα
> The treasury. In [Acts 8:20](http://biblehub.com/acts/8-20.htm): But Peter said unto him (Simon), thy money perish with thee, because thou hast thought that the Gift [i.e. Treasury] of God may be purchased with Money." The reference is to the laying on of hands or Baptism, a blessing so that the Holy Spirit may be received by the faithful. see [508](508).

### See Also:

- [2](2)