## 21 - Twenty-One
> 3x7. Σ6 = 21. The diameter of the Formative World, Yetzirah.

> According to Pernety [Great Art, p. 183] 21 is a designation for the white stage of the work, call also: white copper, lamb, argent-vive, silver, white essence, Eve, white gum, foundation of art, hoe, hyle, virgin's milk, preparatory mean, root of art, unique root, rebis, Seth, companion, sister, sperm of the metals, field in which the Gold must be sown, glass, Zibach, ziva, veil, white veil, white rose, etc.

> 21 represents the combination of the Ego (1) with the non-ego (2), but it is a reversal of the order expressed by [12](12). In 12 the Ego is the vehicle and the non-ego the active principle; in 21 is the manifestation of the I through the me, the expression of the universal through the personal, the realization that the whole manifestation is the act of the Universal Ego. *[The Gematria Notebooks of Paul Foster Case]*

> *"Look at the Rota and see what [Key 21](21) says. It is really a symbol of union, and is therefore the extension numerically of [Key 6](6). Ask yourselves what has become of the man in Key 6, when that Key's full expression is represented by [Key 21](21), and you will perhaps learn something to your advantage. Of course 21 is a representation of Binah, and the very number shows this because it reduces to Binah's number, 3; and in Key 21, if you look intently, you may see delineated in plain sight representation of the idea expressed in Hebrew as the word אין, which is both בטן [belly, womb, the inmost part] and אמך [thy mother]. No, we shall not tell you, for you can find out for yourselves, and if you do, you should go on from there to a great many practical applications."* [32nd Communication] see [61](61), [67](67), [400](400), [713](713).


### [The Twenty-First Path](/keys/K)
> *The twenty-first path (Kaph, joining Chesed to Netzach) is called the [Intelligence of Desirous Quest](/keys/ShKL.HChPTz.HMBVQSh) because it receives the divine influence, which it distributes as a blessing to all modes of being.* [The Book of Formation]. see [saykel ha-khayfetz ha-meboqash](986), [178](178), [183](183), [448](448), [986](986).

> Kaph - To change into gold not only all metals, but also the earth itself, and even the refuse of the earth. *[Eliphas Levi, Transcendental Magic]*

The Twenty-First Path of Kaph (Intelligence of Desirous Quest), connecting Chesed to Netzach, is the path through which the Chaiah bestows upon us the intentions of the One Life. These intentions manifest in the field of our Self-Consciousness as desires. Chesed is the *sphere* of Jupiter and the *seat* of cosmic memory. As the manifested Universe simulates the passage of time through its consistent whirling motion originating in Kether, our Subconsciousness accumulates a store of images which become part of the cosmic memory. The same is true for all images which enter our field of awareness through the door of creative imagination represented by the Empress. Those images which represent future aspirations are therefore always available to us, and we can call them into the field of present imagination to signal to Subconciousness our intended manifestations. The "Quest" is undertaken by the images streaming from the One Life, and the object of their quest is to come into our own field of awareness, from which we can direct Subconsciousness to go ahead with manifesting those desires.

### [Key 21: The World](/keys/Th)

- [Tav](/keys/Th) (**ת**): "Mark" or "Signature"
- [Administrative or Serving Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.NOBD). See [The 32rd Path](32)
- Cosmic Consciousness
- Dominion and Slavery
- Saturn
- Blue-Violet / A-natural

### [Eheyeh](/keys/AHIH) - אהיה
> "I am", Existence, Being, the Divine Name attributed to Kether which refers to the formative power of the Primal Will. The Name of Names. In [Exodus 3:14](http://biblehub.com/exodus/3-14.htm), this word is translated "I AM." see [1032](1032), [620](620), [37](37).

### [khesev](/keys/ChZV) - חזו
> vision, form, appearance. An Aramaic noun, used in [Daniel 4:13](http://biblehub.com/daniel/4-13.htm) and [7:7](http://biblehub.com/daniel/7-7.htm), and [7:20](http://biblehub.com/daniel/7-20.htm). In relation to Kether and Atziluth it intimates that what appears, however illusory the appearance may be and however men may misinterpret it, is actually a manifestation of the real presence of the Originating Principle seated in Kether. As a conjunction, khesev means "if," suggesting conditional existence. The Rabbinical writers employed חזו to convey the idea expressed by the English pronoun these, signifying the multiplicity of objects presented to the mind whenever it attends to the various phases of conditional existence. Hawgeeg and khesev extend the meaning of the Logos doctrine by their indication that the process is exactly what is meant by a statement in THE OF BOOK OF TOKENS: "I utter myself by seeing."

### [Yeho](/keys/IHV) - יהו
> A mystic name of 3 letters with which God sealed the six directions of space, creating the cube of space [Book of Formation, Sepher Yetzirah]. In the central point (Kether) are condensed or concentrated the potencies of all 6 directions. Connected also with the ancient Greek mystery name IAO (ee-ah-oh, see [811](811)) and with Horus and Dionysus. (When a pentegram is traced, each line stands for Yeho or Eheieh. Forms the special name of Chokmah, יה, [Yah](/keys/IH). Vav is a symbol for the 6th Sephirah, Tiphareth. Thus the work of creation is the joint activity of the two aspects of being called the Father (Chokmah) and the Son (Tiphareth). When a pentagram is traced, each line stands for יהו or אהיה. see [17](17), [343](343).

> Actually יהו is the name with which He sealed the height, and turned toward above, and sealed it with  יהו. According to Gesenius, יהו is a Hebrew name of God, a shorter form of יהוה. This name of three letters as a compound in many Hebrew proper names. It may be considered, either as a short form of יהוה, or as being יה, Yah, ["high, elevated, swelling high," in S.Y. I 11]. Since Yod, is assgned to Chokmah, Father; Heh is assigned to Binah, Mother, and vav is assgned to Tiphareth, בן, Ben, the son, perhaps the name may represent the hoy family, fater, mother and son, or Chokmah, Binah and Tiphareth [Gil Johnston].

### [hawgeeg](/keys/HGIG) - הגיג
> deep meditation, musing [Psalms 5:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/5-1.htm). Also, murmuring, whispering. Carries out the idea of contemplation from the archetypal and creative worlds. All cosmic activities are aspect of the musing or meditation of the cosmic self Yekhidah. (I utter myself by seeing", Book of Tokens). The "substance" of light vibration radiated from suns. see [65](65).

### [zachov](/keys/ZChV) - זחו
> purity, referring to the unsullied state of the pattern-forms which exist in the plans of formation. see [7](7), [21](21), [14](14), [44](44), [66](66), [28](28), [88](88).


### [ak](/keys/AK) - אך
> a word having many meanings, but all representing some degree of restriction, such as: only, this once, but, yet, indeed, certainly. The restriction is affirmative. It is the restriction of the specific, as opposed to the vague, of assurance as opposed to doubt.

### [hevai](/keys/HVI) - הוי
> Ah! Alas!

## Latin/Greek

### [In](/latin?word=in) (Lt)
> in. (movement) into; (presence) within. a preposition signifying active movement toward a center within. This refers to Kether as the initial concentration of Limitless Light into a small point. It is a movement toward a center within the boundless expanse of Pure Being. The whole field of cosmic manifestation is held to be within that expanse. Consequently, any point in space may be identified as that inner center. Hence the point within one's life to which he refers when he says "I" must be identical with the Central Reality of the universe, Yekhidah.