## 22 - Twenty-Two
> 2x11.Circumference of a circle of the Archetypal World. Numerical age of brother C.R. when he left the city Fez. 22 represent the circumference of a circle, and the completion of a cycle of manifestation. The circle symbol is also connected with the initials C.R.C., what is intimated is that the full power of the God-Self are now ready to manifest through their regenerated and perfected vehicle. The distinguishing mark of which are tenderness and sympathy.

> The 22 Hebrew letters and the 22 phases of consciousness and the 22 expressions of Mezela, the influence flowing down the paths of the Tree of Life from Kether. *[The Gematria Notebooks of Paul Foster Case]*

> *This number [22] is appropriate, because in occult mathematic 22 represents the circumference of a circle, and the completion of a cycle of manifestation. Furthermore, as we have seen that the circle symbol is also connected with the initials C.R.C., what is intimated here is that the full powers of the God self are now readily to manifest through their regenerated and perfected vehicle, the distinguishing mark of which is tenderness and sympathy. Qabalists are familiar with the 22 Hebrew letters, the 22 phases of consciousness, and the 22 expression of Mezla, the influence flowing down the paths of the Tree of Life from Kether, the crown. The 22 connecting paths of the Tree are represented also by the 22 Tarot Keys. As the magical age of 22, one have become a master of the paths, and is, so to say, a living embodiment of all that is represented by [this] diagram." [True and Invisible p85]*

### [The Twenth-Second Path](22)
> *The twenty-second path (Lamed, joining Geburah to Tiphareth) is called the [Faithful Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.NAMN) because by it spiritual powers are increased. All dwellers on earth are under its shadow.* [The Book of Formation]. see [141](141), [491](491)

Faithful Intelligence ([saykel](350) [ne-amen](141)). I am the Faithful Intelligence, loving God with all my heart, and with all my soul, and with all my mind.

> Lamed - To subdue the most ferocious animals and be able to pronounce the words which paralyze and charm serpents. *[Eliphas Levi - Transcendental Magic]*

### [chettah](/keys/ChTH) - חטה
> wheat. A seed-form, symbolically expressive of the archetypal world. see Key 3, the Empress.

### [teobah](/keys/TVBH) - טובה
> good. Refers to the goodness of primordial ideas. Also: welfare, prosperity, happiness, bounty, favor, kindness, Good will. see [7](7), [14](14), [44](44), [21](21), [28](28), [66](66), [88](88).

### [zeoog](/keys/ZVVG) - זווג
> the state of puberty. Also: Marrying, marriage, pairing, coupling.

### [Yaiah](/keys/IAIA) - יאיא
> Notariqon of **יהוה אלהים יהוה אחד** [Jehovah Elohim Jehovah Echad](/keys/IHVH.ALHIM.IHVH.AChD), "Jehovah Elohim is One Jehovah" or "The Lord of Creation is One God."

### [yawchud](/keys/IChD) - יחד
> Unity; to be united, joined. Also: to single out, set apart for special use, to cause to be alone, cause to meet privately; With different vowel points: to be done with, be set apart, be special; With different vowel points: union, unitedness. As an adverb, together, all together. see [65](65).

### [Hayayah](/keys/HAAIH) - האאיה 
> Hayayah, Haiaiah. "Hearer in secret or Hidden God". 26th Shemhamphorash, angel of the 8 of wands [Hod of Atziluth] 126° - 130° Aphruimis. April 14, June 25, September 5, November 16, January 27. 8:20-8:40 A.M. *[Psalm 119:145](http://biblehub.com/psalms/119-145.htm) "I have called with my whole heart, answer me, O Lord (IHVH)."*

> To win a lawsuit and render the judges favorable. Protects all who seek truth; it leads men to the contemplation of things divine. It rules politics, diplomats, ambassadors, treats of peace and commerce, and all conventions. Generally, it influences through couriers, dispatches, agents and secret expeditions. see [965](965), [1525](1525). Godwin gives: Haayah; angel of the 2nd quinance (6-10°) of Sagittarius; angel by night of the 8 of wands. This represents the subconscious influence of the sphere of mercury, in Atziluth, the archetypal world. Davidson says this is the angel of the order of Dominations [Dictionary of Angels, p. 131]

### [be-kaw](/keys/BK) - בך
> in thee, with thee. [Genesis 48:20](http://biblehub.com/genesis/48-20.htm) "And he [Jacob] blessed them that day and said, In your [in thee] name will Israel pronounce the blessing: May God make you like Ephraim and Manasseh. So he put Ephraim ahead of Manaseeh." see [502](502).

### [bidav](/keys/BIDV) - בידו
> with (by) his hand. Connects with an egyptian idea of creation. Also [be-Yod](/keys/BIVD). by Yod

### [chazvah](/keys/ChZVA) - חזוא
> (Aramaic) a magical vision. Designates the mental activity which is the embodiment of desire or longing.

## Latin/Greek

### [Deo](/latin?word=Deo) (Lt)
God. As spelled in an inscription discovered in the vault of C.R. It is part of the phrase "From God we are Born."

### [C.R.C.](/latin?word=CRC) (Lt)
Brother C.R.C.