## 23 - Twenty-Three
prime.

### [The Twenty-Third Path](/keys/M) - מ
> *The twenty-third path (Mem, joining Geburah to Hod) is called the [Stable Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.QIIM) because it is the power of permanence in all the Sephiroth.* [The Book of Formation]. see [160](160), [510](510)

> Mem - To possess the [Ars Notaria](/latin?word=ars+notaria) which gives the universal science.  *[Eliphas Levi, Transcendental Magic]*

### [Chaiah](/keys/ChIH) - חיה
> the Life-force, is that part of the constitution of man specially attributed to Chokmah. In organic life, it is a whirling force inherent in the order of the constellations. This is a conscious, vital, life-giving potency. It is the masculine dynamic energy and protective power that is the basis of physical procreation. In Atziluth it is the Fire, the irresistible urge in us of the Universal Will. All our drives to understand, all our yearning to comprehend the underlying forces of existence, are rooted in this drive to establish order out of chaos, rooted in the Chokmah, or Wisdom. And this fire is broadcast from Chokmah through Tiphareth, the Central Ego to every human being, incarnate or discarnate, via the path of Heh, the 15th path. The first letter of Chaiah, Cheth, means fence. The second and third letters IH, spell the diving name of Chokmah, Yah. It relates to he "protective" power of Chokmah and its being the primary filed of the Life-power's self-limitation by means of which all subsequent words of formation are made possible. He who knows the secret of this connecting relationship knows how to attract all things, whether spiritual or metaphysical. Magic is a mode of Life, a way of living, in which the Magician is a medium for conscious expression of the irresistible power of the heavenly order.

> *"...the wise know it also as the channel for the transmission of Life, and Life is Chaiah, seated in Chokmah, to which Yod specially pertaineth. For Chaiah is none other than אור. Now see, אור, [Aur](/keys/AVR), is the number [207](207), and this is [9](9) times [23](23). Now 23 is the number of חיה, [Chaiah](/keys/ChIH), and 9 is the number of Yesod; furthermore Chaiah is in Chokmah and is thus to be understood as the power of אב, [Ab](/keys/AB) the Father. Thus may you know that Life and Light are one; that Light is always pure and always Holy, and that the extension of Light is its multiplication through forms. ....You may have wondered what this section of the Text has to do with the Astral plane, the mystery of the 9th Sephira is a secret of Yod... Yod is the letter of אב, and dilates upon Chaiah... the secret has to do with the radiance of the stars, that is with Light, which is one with Life."* [27th Communication]. see [363](363), [11](11), [207](207), [430](430), [80](80), [10](10)

### [avuiy](/keys/AVVI) - אווי
> desire, hunger, appetite for. To bind is the essential idea. Desire is the binding cord. Life, wrongly interpreted, is the thing desired. When that false desires are removed, Babylon falls. Then all evil conditions are changed and the joy of the Lord is manifested. Briah is the world or plane associated with the power of desire in creating mental images.

### [khedvah](/keys/ChDVH) - חדוה
> gladness, rejoicing, joy.

### [agidah](/keys/AGIDH) - אגידה
> The Zohar [II:234B, pp.347 -348] comments: *"'And I shall tell you.' The word "tell", אגידה, [Agidah](/keys/AGIDH), contains an allusion to the esoteric wisdom. He sought to reveal to them their final destiny. It may be asked, seeing that he did not reveal what he sought to reveal, why are his words, which were afterwards believed, recorded in the scripture? The truth is that all that was needful to be revealed is completely stated and there is a hidden meaning within, and so nothing in the scripture is believed. In fact, everything is included in the scripture, and there is no word or letter short in it. Jacob said all that was needful for him to say, but not all openly, and not a letter was short of what was required."*

### [khoot](/keys/ChVT) - חוט
> to string together, to join. As a noun: thread, line, a measuring tape. In Eastern Philosophy, sutratma, thread soul. The line or ray of the Life-power's outflowing influence which serves as a link of connection between successive lives of a particular soul. The Briatic watery substance holds the patterns which serve as a link throughout a whole series of incarnations related to a specific ray or individuality of the Life-power's self-expression.

### [yehagah](/keys/IHGH) - יהגה
> He meditates. The connecting thread (Khoot) is mental in essence. God thinks the world into being, and the Life- Force is the activity of his unbroken meditation throughout a cosmic cycle.

### [sakhakh](/keys/ZChCh) - זחח
> to be removed, be displaced, be agitated. see [262](262).

### See Also:

- [5](5)