## 24 - Twenty-Four
> 8x3. The mystical number for alchemical salt. Especially related to the Pythagorean triangle of Osiris-Isis-Horus, and to the 24 thrones of the elders in the Apocalypse, which refer to the positive and negative manifestations of the powers symbolized by the 12 signs, the 12 tribes, and the 12 apostles.

---

### [The Twenty-Fourth Path](/keys/N)
> *"The twenty-fourth path (Nun, joining Tiphareth to Netzach) is called the [Intelligence of Resemblance](/keys/ShKL.DMIVNI) (or, Imaginative Intelligence) because it constitutes the similarity in the likenesses of all created beings."* [The Book of Formation]. see [120](120), [470](470)

Conferred by knowledge of the 24th path:

> *"Nun - to speak learnedly on all subjects, without preparation and wihtout study."* [Eliphas Levi - Transcendental Magic]

> *"I am the Intelligence of Imagination, creating an expanded, liberated life by my power of true vision."* [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom]

---

### [dak, dakah](/keys/DK) - דך
> oppressed, humbled, miserable, cursed, down trodden. As a noun: pauper. Caused by ignorance and inertia -- overbalance of Salt. see [504](504).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"דך. The sign of natural abundance contracted with the root אד, symbol of concentric movement and of every restriction and exception, composes a root infinitely expressive whose object is to depict need, necessity, poverty and all ideas proceeding there from. The arabic [word] constitutes an onomatopoeic and idiomatic root which express the noise made in striking, beating, knocking; which consequently, develops all ideas which are attached to the action of striking, as those of killing, breaking, splitting, etc.... דך. that which is needy, contrite, sad, poor, injurious, calamitous, vexation, etc."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 322].

---

### [David](/keys/DVID) - דויד
> David, "beloved," the Biblical hero and King of Israel. (variant spelling, see [14](14)).

> D.D. Bryant says: *"He, David, is the sulfur, or active principle of the Great Work, while Jonathan, the King's son, stands for Mercury. David's first feat was the slaying of a Lion and a bear. These are 2 animals which typify a certain element in the philosopher's confection. David next slayed the giant [Goliath](/keys/GLITh) ([443](443)), brings David into prominence and attracts the notice of the King. The "giant" is the imagined evil principle, precisely like the dragon or the beast. David is described as a youth and "ruddy" (red) which make him correspond to our red water, the thing, in fact which does actually kill the 'giant' with 'a smooth stone.'"*

> Paul Case comments: *"The red water is blood, whose chemical condition, modified by intelligent control of diet, and by the response of the ductless glands to suggestions, is the agent whereby those changes in cell-structure are brought about as a result of which the adept unfolds his consciousness so as to percepitate the Stone. The law seems to be "no thought without corresponding cell-activity." To think any particular thought it is necessary that there be cells so constituted that they can transmute the vital principle into specific forms of ideation. Thus the whole problem resolves itself into a control of the cell forming functions of the body, to the end that cells may be developed capable of responding to the vibrations of thought and perception beyond the ranges of ordinary human consciousness. In short, the problem is to learn how to modify the blood so that it will build the sort of cells we need for our interior development. D.D. Bryant continues: Strange as it may seem, these '5 stones' are expression of the same idea as the '5 wise virgins' of the Christ parable, the same also as the 5 loaves and 2 fishes that feed the multitudes. It is what the philosophers call the Quintessence or reduction of the 4 principles into the fifth, which represents the sum of all perfection. You may think of this as the 5 interior senses all uniting to form one perception."* [Paul Case on D.D. Bryant's Philosopher's Stone IX] See [581](581), [700](700), [443](443), [14](14).

> *"Love... is the substance of manifestation... it is abundance itself."* [Case: The Flaming Cube].

> In Thomas Troward's Bible Mystery and Bible Meaning (p. 171), he writes: *"'David' means 'the beloved' or the man who realizes his true relation to the infinite spirit; and the description of Daniel as a man, greatly beloved and who realizes his true relation to the infinite spirit; and who had set his heart to understand [Daniel 10:11](http://biblehub.com/daniel/10-11.htm), shows us that it is this set purpose of seeking to understand the nature of the universal spirit and the mode of our own relation to it, that raises the individual to the position of David or 'the Beloved.'"* Paul Case comments: *"Note that דוד = זהב, the alchemical Gold. The variant spelling, דויד [David](/keys/DVID) = 24 = [Ahobi](/keys/AHVBI) אהובי, 'He whom I love' = [Ohabi](/keys/AVHBI) אוהבי, 'He who loves me' = [betachah](/keys/BTChH) בטחה 'confidence'. [Isaiah 30:15](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/30-15.htm): 'In quietness and in confidence shall be your strength.'"* see [320](320) ([ishi](/keys/IShI)).

This spelling of [David](/keys/DVID) (דויד) is used in the books of Kings and Chronicles:

- [1 Kings 3:14](http://biblehub.com/text/1_kings/3-14.htm): *"keep my statutes and my commandments, as thy father David did walk"*
- [1 Chronicles 3:1](http://biblehub.com/text/1_chronicles/3-1.htm): *"Now these were the sons of David, which were born"*

---

### [Ahobi](/keys/AHVBI) - אהובי
> He whom I Love.

---

### [Ohabi](/keys/AVHBI) - אוהבי
> He who loves me.

---

### [betachah](/keys/BTChH) - בטחה
Confidence. [Isaiah 30:15](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/30-15.htm): *"In quietness and in confidence shall be your strength."*

---

### [Yecho](/keys/IChV) - יחו
> 33rd name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 3rd quinance (11-15°) of Capricorn. see [36](36), [39](39), [1525](1525).

---

### [kad](/keys/KD) - כד
> a water pot, a large earthenware vessel, pitcher. It comprises the enclosure of all bodies and is the "earth vessel" of the alchemist. see [29](29).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"כד. That which partakes of relative unity, isolation, division. In a restricted sense a spark, a fragment. The chaldaic כד is represented in a restricted sense, by the adverbial relation when. The arabic [word] signifies in general, to act in one's own interest, to work for self; in particular, to be industrious, to intrigue, to be fatigued, tormented."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 370]

---

### [gevyah](/keys/GVIH) - גויה
> a body or substance. Alchemical salt is the substance of all bodies.

---

### [zeez](/keys/ZIZ) - זיז
> abundance, plenty, superfluity. All 3 of these words [kad, zeez, gevyah] are related to the meaning of alchemical Salt.

---

### [Asbogah](/keys/AZBVGH) - אזבוגה
> "The shining one." Name of a planetary force. Fire is the extended manifestation of the underlying reality which gives body to all things. From a root [גוה] see [14](14).

---

### [vayebah](/keys/VAIBH) - ואיבה
And enmity. [Genesis 3:15](https://biblehub.com/genesis/3-15.htm): *"And I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Hoc](/latin?word=Hoc) (Lt)
> This. This beloved which is found in the salt of manifestation is "the shining one" centered in Tiphareth. Part of an inscription found written of the alter of the vault of Brother C.R. in the Rosicrucian Allegory (see [475](475), [122](122), [76](76), [106](106), [87](87)).

---

### English Gematria:

- [Fame](/english?word=Fame) *([Fama Intro p.13](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13))*

---

### See Also:

- [6](6)
