## 25 - Twenty-Five
5x5.

---

### [The Twenty-Fifth Path](/keys/S) - ס
> *The twenty-fifth path ([Samekh](60), joining Tiphareth to Yesod) is called the [Intelligence of Probation or Trial](/keys/ShKL.NSIVNI) because it is the first test whereby the Creator tries the compassionate.* [The Book of Formation]. see [186](186), [536](536)

Conferred by knowledge of the 25th path:

> *"Samekh - To know at first sight the deep things of the souls of men and the mysteries of the hearts of women.* [Eliphas Levi - Transcendental Magic]

> *"I am the Intelligence of Probation, proving all knowledge in the fires of experience."* [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom]

---

### [Yehi](/keys/IHI) - יהי
*"Let there be".* [Genesis 1:3](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-3.htm).

---

### [koah, koh](/keys/KH) - כה
> thus, so; here. The brotherhood of light is destroyed here, on the physical plane by ignorance of the truth of unity (This is a powerful sigil to use with יהי).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"כה. [Che](/keys/KH). Root analogous to the root כא, but whose expression is spiritualize and reinforced by the presence of the sign Heh. כה. That which is conformable to a given model; that which coincides with a point of space or time, which can be conceived in an abstract sense, by the adverbial relations yes, thus, like this; that; in that very place; at that very time; etc."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 370](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/370/mode/2up)]

---

### [yizach](/keys/IZCh) - יזח
> "will be separated." As long as darkness prevails.

---

### [Abihua](/keys/ABIHVA) - אביהוא
> Worshipper of Hua. That is of Kether, the source of Light.

---

### [Jehuid](/keys/IHVD) - יהוד
> God of Geburah of Binah. Geburah is the sphere of the destructive Mars; Binah is the form-builder, the womb of manifestation.

---

### [Chioa](/keys/ChIVA) - חיוא
> The Qabalistic term for the ?commentary? of סמאל, [Samael](/keys/SMAL), "Poison Angel" and Prince of Death, and אשת זנונים ([Ashath Zanunim](/keys/AShTh.ZNVNIM)), his wife. These three constitute the Infernal Triad. Samael is the "Severity of God" and the fifth of the archangels of the world of Briah, corresponding to the Sephirah Geburah. see [864](864), [1424](1424).

---

### [Hayeya](/keys/HII) - היי
> 71st name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 5th Quinance (21-25°) of Cancer. see [56](56), [1525](1525).

---

### [Akkad](/keys/AKD) - אכד
> A city and dynasty of ancient Babylonia. [Genesis 10:10](http://biblehub.com/genesis/10-10.htm): *"The first centers of his [Nimrod's] kingdom were Babylon, Erech, Akkad and Calneh, in Shinar."*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"ואכד [and Achad](/keys/VAKD)... Two contracted roots compose this word: אך־כד. They depict energetically that sort of sentiment the result of which is, that each is excepted from the general law, flees from it, acts for his own part. The word אכד signifies properly, a particle, a spark."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored (Cosmogony), p. 282](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/282/mode/2up)]

---

### [dekah](/keys/DKA) - דכא
> destruction, collapse. [Psalm 90:3](http://biblehub.com/psalms/90-3.htm): *"Then turnest man to destruction, and sayest return ye sons of Adam."* The consequence of the apparent outgoing of personality into the field of conscious expression which involves the semblance of separateness (see [155](155), [124](124), [85](85)). Acceptance of the illusion for reality leads to collapse ([Key 16](16)). Note that the number דכא, 25 is the square of 5, the number of Mars. See commentary 31st Communication (see [1200](1200), [1309](1309)).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Amo](/keys/amo) (Lt)
> Love. all manifestation is based on the attractive principle which unites one thing to another (see [671](671), [851](851)).

---

### [Ex](/keys/ex) (Lt)
> From. From this attractive principle does the evolutionary growth and fruition of the soul take place. Part of an inscription found of the vault of Brother C.R. (see [683](683) Latin).

---

### [RC + B + D](/latin?word=RC+B+D) (Lt)
The three Rosicrucian brethren who remained after the Rosicrucian Agreement was struck and five of the brothers departed. See [226](226).

