## 26 - Twenty-Six
> 2x13. 26 defines the limits of a cube (6 faces, 8 points, 12 lines) add up to 26, the number of **[IHVH](/keys/IHVH)**. A cube is a symbol of the physical plane.

---

### [The Twenty-Sixth Path](/keys/O)
> *The twenth-sixth path (Ayin, joining Tiphareth to Hod) is called the [Renewing Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.MChVDSh) because thereby God -- blessed be He! -- renews all things which are begun afresh in the creation of the world.* [The Book of Formation]. see [358](358), [708](708).

> *"Ayin - To force nature to make him free at his pleasure."* [Eliphas Levi - Transcendental Magic]

> *"I am the Renewing Intelligence, destroying apparent limitations that the law may be fulfilled."* [Meditations of the Paths of Wisdom]

---

### [Tetragrammaton](/keys/IHVH) - יהוה
Jehovah; Yahweh; that which was, is, and shall be.

> the Unutterable Name, The Divine Name in Chokmah. [Yah](/keys/IH) is the shorter form of **יהוה**. The divine creative name fundamental to the construction of the Tree of Life in the 4 worlds.

> It is probable that the gentiles apprehended certain things, as one might say, concerning this name, and that from so doing they named their God Jupiter; this the Latins were accustomed to use as their common and ordinary terms (for God) Jupiter or Jovis. For after all what difference is there between the Jovis of the Latins and the Jehovah of the Hebrews, as even more Jehovih, as it is written in certain versions of the Bible? ... This great mysterious name is the word of mystery, which has never been lost. This word is universal, and it produces all things, in short it is the word by which God created the heavens, the earth, and all which is contained in space of his infinite circle. *[Lazare Lenain, La Science cabalistique]*

---

### [Yehagah](/keys/IChGH) - יחגה
> He meditates. God thinks the world into being and the Life-force of Chokmah in Briah is the activity of His unbroken meditation, which continues throughout the duration of a cosmic cycle.

---

### [Kabad](/keys/KBD) - כבד
> kebed, kabad. weight, heavy, mighty; abundance, multitude; vehemence, violence. *"The liver and Kebad, husband of impure Lilith" [K.D.L.C.K. 464](http://www.hermetics.org/pdf/KabbalahUnveiled.pdf)*. The force of gravitation (electro-magnetism), the basis of all action. Also: the liver, the innermost part (as we say, "the heart"); glorious, magnificent; glory, wealth. *[TL-5] "since 26 is also the number of **יהוה**, we perceive that the whole qabalistic system diagrammed on the Tree is the practical mystery, not only concerned with the direction of the serpent fire, but also related to the utilization of the unknown omnipresent power which makes particles of matter tend toward one another, the force which makes bodies fall to earth, and holds planets in their orbits around the sun"*

> [Leviticus 3:4](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/3-4.htm): *"and the long lobe of the **liver,** which you will remove with the kidneys."*

---

### [kavad](/keys/KBD) - כבד
> to be heavy, to be burdensome; grievous; difficult; abundant, numerous.

---

### [kibad](/keys/KBD) - כבד
> to make heavy, harden; to honor, glorify; to sweep up, tidy (a room).

---

### [kabad](/keys/KBD) - כבד
> to be honored.

---

### [kedabh](/keys/KDB) - כבד
> to lie, to tell falsehoods.

---

### [Kedabh](/keys/KDB) - כדב
> to lie, to tell falsehoods.

---

### [Chozah](/keys/ChVZH) - חוזה
> seeing, looking at, Chozoh. sight, vision. *"I utter myself by seeing"* [Book of Tokens].

---

### See Also:

- [8](8)
