## 27 - Twenty-Seven
> (3x3x3). Age of Brother C.R. after spending 5 years in his habitation, where he "ruminated his voyage and philosophy and reduced them together in a true memorial."

> *27 is the 3rd cube (1 the 1st and 8 the 2nd) and suggests the symbolism of a geometric cube. The cube is a symbolism of the Holy of Holies and the Heavenly City mentioned in the 21st chapter of Revelations.* [True and Invisible (WeiserBooks), p90]

	.     142857/13  = 10,989 1+0+9+8+9 = 27 = 9
	.     142857/11  = 12,987 1+2+9+8+7 = 27 = 9
	.     142857/37  =  3,861 3+8+6+1   = 18 = 9
	.     142857/27  =  5,291 5+2+9+1   = 17 = 8
	.     142857/407 =    351 3+5+1          = 9

([142,857](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/142,857))

---

### [The Twenty-Seventh Path](/keys/P) - פ
> *"The twenty-seventh path (Peh, joining Netzach to Hod) is called the [Exciting or Active Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.MVRGSh) because thence is created the spirit of every creature under the supreme orb, and the assemblage of them all."* [The Book of Formation]. see [549](549), [899](899)

Conferred by knowledge of the 27th path:

> *"Peh - To foresee all future events which do not depend on a superior free will, or an all undiscernible cause."* [Eliphas Levi - Transcendental Magic]

> *"I am the Exciting Intelligence, breaking down all structures of error and false knowledge."* [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom]


---

### [zak](/keys/ZK) - זך
> clean. pure. Though it is designated by another adjective, the idea of purity is associated with Yesod, meaning Basis or Foundation. 27 is appropriate to designate the magical age at which brother CR becomes a Founder of the Fraternity. The Rosicrucian grade corresponding to Yesod is Theoricus, and in this grade the fundamental theory of the Great Work is explained. (see [9](9), [80](80), [220](220), [570](570), [18](18), [36](36), [445](445), [63](63), [72](72), [81](81), [90](90)).

---

### [kheedaw](/keys/ChIDH) - חידה
> Intricate speech, a riddle, an enigma; oracle, puzzle; a parable. "This is the best possible description of magical language and writing with which the brehren began at once to busy themselves." [True and Invisible (WeiserBooks), p90]

---

### [bawkah](/keys/BKH) - בכה
> to drop, distill, to flow down in drops; to cry, wail. "This describes the Hermetic work, and suggest also the measured outpouring of energy involved in such an undertaking."

> בכה also means: to weep, to cry; to wail. The Masters are moved by compassion for the errors of the unenlightened, by sympathy for suffers from the consequence of these errors of the unenlightened. They work without ceasing for the purification and regeneration of the Human race. see [132](132), Chasidim.

> *"Here is a strong intimation that the cube of 3 units represent that which to the average man is a riddle indeed, and a cause for mourning; but also that which to the wise is a means for the establishment of purity, clarity and cleanlyness of mind and body."* [Paul Case: The Flaming Cube - Light of the Chaldees, p???]

---

### See Also:

- [9](9)
