## 28 - Twenty-Eight
> 2x2x7. The 2nd [perfect number](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Perfect_number). Σ[7](7) = 28. The mystical number of Netzach. The diameter of Assiah in the material world. The boundary of the ground plan for the vault of brother CR. The number of days in a lunar month. By some accounts, the number of pieces the body of Osiris was divided.

---

### [The Twenty-Eighth Path](/keys/Tz) - צ
> *The twenty-eighth path (Tzaddi, joining Netzach to Yesod) is called the [Natural Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.MVTBO) because by it is perfected the nature of all things under the orb of the sun.* [The Book of Formation]. see [127](127), [477](477).

Conferred by knowledge of the 28th Path:

> *"Tzaddi - To give at once and to all the most efficacious consolations and the most wholesome counsels.* [Eliphas Levi - Transcendental Magic]

> *"I am the Natural Intelligence, completing and perfecting all change beneath the starlight of eternal knowing."* [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom]

---

### [yechud](/keys/IChVD) - יחוד
> union or unity, indicates the fact that the material world, which we misinterpret as the sphere of manyness or multiplicity, is fundamentally the ONE expression of ONE reality, in which there is no separation whatever, each of the seemingly separate parts being combined with all the others. This is a conception made understandable by modern rediscoveries concerning the electrical constitution of matter. see [88](88), [7](7), [22](22), [14](14), [44](44), [21](21), [66](66). Also privacy, private meeting; profession of unity of God (also separation) see [440](440).

---

### [yacheddaw, yechadu](/keys/IChDV) - יחדו
> together, all together; alike. Mathers: Union, unity.

---

### [aebayhud](/keys/ABIHVD) - אביהוד
> Father or possessor of renown. One who has "strength."

---

### [ha-chaiah](/keys/HChIH) - החיה
> Translated "creature" in [Genesis 1:21](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-21.htm): *"And God created great whales, and every living creature that moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind..."*

> From חיה Chaiah, living thing, animal; life; appetite; revival, renewal... Thus "the creatures."

---

### [chek](/keys/ChK) - חך
> to taste; to pass something through the plate; the throat; palate; mouth as organ of speech. The throat is connected with Venus and with desire. see [508](508).

---

### [kach](/keys/KCh) - כח
> power, strength, might. Refers to the magic square of Venus. It represents by its total summation (2800 or 28x100) the formative power of desire. This work locates for us the place were we shall draw the power used in magic and other forms of practical occultism. The power we are to use is a physical power. The power is in plain sight. The alchemists tell us again and again when they intimate that the First Matter of the art is procurable everywhere, and without expense. *"The reversal of the letters [כח] forms the word חך, [Khake](/keys/ChK), signifying the mouth as the former of words, or the power of verbal utterance. This power of verbal utterance is held in occult philosophy to be basic in the creation and formation of the universe. It is, indeed, the power which supports all creation, and thus it is appropriate that ?[of]? an area of a great lozenge [formed in the geometrical construction of the Tree of Life] corresponding to חך, Khake, by number should be shown as being what is outside and below the Tree of Life as its support [the number 28]"* [Paul Case: Letter to J.W. Hamilton-Jones March 10, 1952 page 4].

---

### [yaggayah](/keys/IGIH) - יגיה
> "wilt lighten". [Psalm 18:28](http://biblehub.com/psalms/18-28.htm): *"For thou wilt light my candle: the Lord my God will enlighten my darkness."* [King James]. *"You, O Lord, keep my lamp burning; my God turns my darkness into light."* [New International]

---

### [tiyt](/keys/TIT) - טיט
> clay. A plastic medium easily impressed with the image of the artist. The substance out of which God formed Adam. Although different words for "clay" are used, the following quotes convey the thought:

> - [Job 10:9](http://biblehub.com/job/10-9.htm): *"Remember that you molded me like clay. Will you now turn me to dust again?"*
> - [Job 33:6](http://biblehub.com/job/33-6.htm): *"I am just like you before God; I too have been taken from clay."*

> Clay also refers to imperfect human beings, mired in the depths of materialism, and analogous to the "base metals" of the alchemist. They are transformed into the reality of "living stones" or "Gold". (Study this word letter by letter, and with the help of the corresponding Tarot keys, paths, etc.).

---

### [yawidyd](/keys/IDID) - ידיד
> Beloved, lovely, pleasant. [Deuteronomy 33:12](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/33-12.htm): *"About Benjamin he said: let the beloved of the Lord rest secure in him, for he shields him all day long."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Caeli](/latin?word=Caeli) (Lt)
> of heaven, or heavenly. Part of a phrase. see [75](75).

---

### [sal](/latin?word=sal) (Lt)
> salt. Corresponding to the 3rd alchemical principal, or Binah. The understanding of the Divine Mother is the bread which nourishes her creations on the physical or material plane. Salt crystallizes into cubes, relating to Saturn and Lead, as well as the cubic stone and cube of space. See [67](67), [78](78), [193](193).

---

### See Also:

- [10](10)
- [406](406) (Σ28)