## 29 - Twenty-Nine
> prime. When 7 = diameter of a circle and the circumference = 22 then 29 is a numerical representation of the symbol for alchemical salt.

---

### [The Twenty-Ninth Path](/keys/Q) - ק
> *The twenty-ninth path (Qoph, joining Netzach to Malkuth) is called the [Corporeal Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.MVGShM) because it marks out the forms of all bodies which are incorporated under every revolution of the zodiac, and is what constitutes the arrangement and the disposition thereof.* [The Book of Formation]. see [389](389), [739](739)

Conferred by knowledge of the 29th Path:

> *"Qoph - To triumph over adversities.* [Eliphas Levi - Transcendental Magic]

I am the Corporeal Intelligence, marking out the form of my regenerated body so that I may be illuminated with light.

---

### [hadak](/keys/HDK) - הדך
> to break down, to overturn, cast down. [Job 40:12](http://biblehub.com/job/40-12.htm). The alchemical salt is the finitizing principle which breaks down the homogeneity of the infinite.

---

### [kazab](/keys/KZB) - כזב
> to fabricate, to spin, to bind together, to deceive. A complex illusion which deceives the ignorant. see [22](22), [67](67). Kawzab as a verb means: to fabricate, to lie, to speak falsehood, to combine or devise, to bind together, to fail, to dry up (as a brook). As a noun: a lie, falsehood; deceit.

---

### [dawkawh](/keys/DKH) - דכה
> to be broken, be depressed. Also: bruising, crushing (particularly of the testicles). [Deuteronomy 23:1](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/23-1.htm): *"He that is wounded in the stones, or hath his primary member cut off, shall not enter into the congregation of the Lord."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [magia](/latin?word=magia) (Lt)
> magic. The "web of illusion" (alchemical salt) is the true magic. Closely related to the sanskrit maya, associated with Binah.

---

### [amen](/latin?word=amen) (Lt)
> amen. "so be it." A title of Kether.

---

### [Via](/latin?word=Via) (Lt)
> Way; method or manner (of doing something.) These words are related to the operation of alchemical Salt. D.O.M.A. Initials for Deus Omnipotens Magister Artis. "God Almighty Master of the Art."

---

### See Also:

- [11](11)