## 30 - Thirty
2x3x5.

### [The Thirtieth Path](/keys/R) - ר
> *"The thirtieth path (Resh, joining Hod to Yesod) is called the [Collective Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.KLLI) because thence astrologers, by the judgment of the stars and the zodiac, derive the perfection of their knowledge of the revolution of ruling principles."* [The Book of Formation]. see [90](90), [440](440)

Conferred by knowledge of the 30th Path:

> *"Resh - To conquer love and hate.* [Eliphas Levi - Transcendental Magic]

> *"I am the Collecting Intelligence, gathering up the force of the Foundation, and concentrating it in the sphere of Splendor."*

### [Lamed](/keys/L) - ל
> "ox-goad." An ox-goad is used to guide oxen and to keep them on the road by the driver. Hence the idea of control, direction and incitement. The shape of the letter Lamed is that of a serpent. It represents the same force we discussed in [Teth](/keys/T) and [Key 8](8). Teth is the coiled serpent, Lamed, is the same snake uncoiled and active. Thus the BOOK of FORMATION assigns action or work to Lamed. With slight change in pronunciation the letter is a verb, meaning, "to teach". Thus the ideas represented by our noun education. The character for Lamed is usually explained as being a conventionalized picture of a goad, or whip. But some authorities hold that it really represents an erect serpent. see [74](74).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"This character as consonant, belongs to the lingual sound. As symbolic image it represents the arm of a man, the wing of a bird, that which extends, raises and unfolds itself. As grammatical sign, it is expansive movement and is applied to all ideas of extension, elevation, occupation, possession. It is, in Hebrew the directive article...expressing in nouns or actions, a movement of union, dependence, possession or coincidence."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 377].

> *"DIRECTIVE ARTICLE -- It expresses, with nouns or actions whose movement it modifies, a direct relation of union, of possession, or of coincidence. I translate it by to, at, for, according to, toward, etc."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.112]

> Rabbi Yose liken the Lamed to a town watchman who stands on a high lookout and calls out his warning: *"...Lamed. O so beautiful Lamed. Tall elegant like a [palm branch](/keys/LVLB) (לולב) waved high...the Lamed is actually composed of two separate letters...it is the Vav (nail) perched on the roof of the Beth (house)."* [the Book of Letters, Rabbi Kushner]

> *"A tower soaring in the air."* [the Alef- Beit, Rabbi Ginsburgh]

### [Jehudah, Judah](/keys/IHVDV) - יהודו
> praised, celebrated; the tribe of Israel assigned to Leo and the letter Teth. When masculine: Judah. Feminine: Judea. Related to alchemical digestion, the sense of taste and to the Intelligence of the Secret of all Spiritual Activities. The blessing of Jacob [Genesis 49:9](http://biblehub.com//.htm) says: *"A Lion's whelp is Judah; on prey you have grown up, my son. He crouches, he couches like a lion, like an old Lion; who dare disturb him?"* see 419, 661, 216, 570 (Gr.)

> According to D.D. Bryant, the immortal spring of Judea is connected with Yesod. Case: *"The source of the 'Land,' region or sphere of manifestation of יהודה 'the Praised One.' ([30](30)), suggesting a triple manifestation of the 10 Sephiroth. Lamed equals 30 as is assigned to work, Libra and the Path of the Faithful Intelligence, joining Geburah to Tiphareth. In Libra, a cardinal air sign, the planets Saturn and Mercury [Venus?] rule. The number 30 also represents the word יהיה, "it will be." Furthermore, יהודה is [Tetragrammaton](/keys/IHVH), יהוה with Daleth, the letter of Venus =Copper=brass the metal of [Nachash](/keys/NChSh) [[358](358)] interposed between Vav and the final Heh. Vau is Taurus, ruling the throat. Heh is Aries, ruling the head and brain. Here we see Venus interposed between the throat and brain, between the place where speech is formulated and the place where ideas are generated. The implication will be clear enough to students of higher thought or of magic. The power of the spoken word, modified by Venus, has the result of effecting a change in the instrument of thought. In other words, when Venus modifies our speech, our thoughts are transformed. This is the principle of all practices, involving the use of the 'spoken word' whether in christian science, new thought, or in the older forms of magical practice. It is the principle of suggestion or speech modified by Venus = desire or imagination."* [Paul Case on D.D. Bryant's The Philosophers Stone, VIII, p.7]

### [Abitub](/keys/ABITVB) - אביטוב
> "Father of Goodness." Judah, as Leo is connected with the heart center and thus is Father of all that is good, i.e. love. see [17](17).

### [kiy](/keys/KI) - כי
> that; when, while, as, for, because; but, only, indeed; in fact; lest; even if; although, though. see [47](47), [כי טוב].

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"כי, Chi. Manifestation of any assimilating, compressing force. The arabic [word] signifies in a restricted sense, a burn. כי The force expressed by the root is represented in an abstract sense, by relations that, because, for then, when, etc."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 372].

> Godwin gives, brand, mark burnt in, burning, burn. [Isaiah 3:24](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/3-24.htm): *"Instead of fragrance, there will be a stench; instead of beauty, branding."*

### [yeyeye](/keys/III) - ייי
> 22nd name of Shemhamphorash , short form, associated with the 4th quinance (16-20°) of Scorpio. see [61](61), [1525](1525).

### [yiheyeh, eyehayay](/keys/IHIH) - יהיה
> future tense of the verb "to be".

### [hiib](/keys/ChIIB) - חייב
> A party to an action at law; defendant, plaintiff. Note Lamed L=30=Justice.

## Greek/Latin:

### [deka](/greek?word=deka) (Gr) - δεκα
> Ten.

### [Arabia](/latin?word=Arabia) (Lt)
> "Sterility." The place in the Fama where brother CRC became aquanited with the wise men of the temple in Damcar, and where he struck a bargain with the arabians for a certain sum of money. This involves further experimental work, which was begun at Damascus.

> *"The vow of chastity implies by the place name Arabia. It refers to more than physical contenance, to more than merely refraining from the exercise of the sex-function. To receive initiation demands utter receptivity and that receptivity cannot be established or maintained unless, for this period, there is abstinence from any kind of creative activity, mental or physical. The temple of initiation is also in Arabia, and it is there brother CRC meets the wise men. Yet the bargain with the arabians is for a 'certain sum of money'. Furthermore, Brother CRC's sojourn at the temple is for a definitely limited time. The utter sterility which is necessary in order that one may pass safely through the trials of initiation is by no means imposed for life. It is an indispensable preliminary training in self-control, and this training is what Jesus meant by his cryptic statement that some persons make themselves Eunuchs 'for the Kingdom of Heaven's sake...' This temporary sterility establishes within the body a tremendous physical reserve of Life-force, and in the mind a like reserve of the subtler manifestation of the same force. After initiation, one leaves Arabia, that is to say, one returns to a more normal course of life."* [The True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p.73-74].