## 31 - Thirty-One
> (prime)

---

### [The Thirty-First Path](/keys/Sh) - ש
> *"The thirty-first path (Shin, joining Hod to Malkuth) is called the [Perpetual Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.ThMIDI) because it rules the movements of the sun and moon according to their constitution, and perfects all the powers of all the revolutions of the zodiac, and the arrangement (or, form) of their judgments.* [The Book of Formation]. see [464](464), [814](814)

Conferred by knowledge of the 31st Path:

> *"Shin - To have the secret of wealth, to be always its master and never its slave. To know how to enjoy even poverty and never become abject or miserable."* [Eliphas Levi - Transcendental Magic]

> *"I am the Perpetual Intelligence, which rules the two great lights of consciousness."* [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom]

---

### [Al or El](/keys/AL) - אל
> strength, power, might, God the Mighty One. Divine Name corresponding to Chesed (4 of Wands). By its letters it is connected with the element of air and the Suit of Swords. [Aleph](/keys/A): super-consciousness aspect of the airy power. [Lamed](/keys/L): the ox-goad, denotes direction and purpose. Perfectly free in Itself, the Life-power nevertheless guides Itself, during a cycle of manifestation, through self-appointed ways or channels of activity, corresponding to the formative power of Yetzirah. [Kether of Briah].

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"אל. This root springs from the united signs of power and extensive movement. The ideas which it develops are those of elevation, force, power, extent. The Hebrews and arabs have drawn from it the name of God. אל hieroglyphically, this is the symbol of nature or adverb relations to, toward, for, by, against, upon, beneath, etc. The arabic [word] is employed as the universal designative relation, the, of the, to the, etc. As verb it expresses in the modern idiom it signifies literally, to be wearied by too much movement. אל and אלל (intens.) In this excess of extension, it is that which passes away, which is empty, vain; expressed by the adverbial relation no, not, not so, nought, nothing; etc."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 294]

---

### [lo](/keys/LA) - לא
> "not", or "No-Thing". *"Thus the same letters א and ל reversed are the usual sign for nothing and for not. This nothing is all. It is the darkness of אין, [Ain](/keys/AIN), but see this: אין is [61](61), or אל increased by [30](30), and the time shall come when human speech shall show this forth.... that strange last comment on אין and its numeral value says in so many words that, in what was time to come for the writer, men would express the idea which in Hebrew is written ככל, [kole](/keys/KL), by adding another ל to the Holy name כל, so that a-l-l, your English word, does exactly fulfill this. ALL in English stands exactly for what Qabalists mean by אין, and if the Hebrew values of the English letters be used here, it produces [61](61)."* [29th Communication 1/26/48]. see [713](713), [50](50), [106](106).

> With other vowel-points, it, is a preposition meaning "to, toward, into, or against." Thus El, "God," is shown to be NO THING, yet at the same time a strong power, which is the cause of motion toward, into, or even against see [61](61), [48](48), [560](560), [538](538).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"לא. this root is symbol of the line prolonged to infinity, of movement without term; of action whose duration is limitless: Thence the opposed idea; of being and nothingness, which it uses in developing the greater part of its compounds. The arabic [word] develops the ideas of the Hebraic root. In a restricted sense [word] signifies literally to shine, sparkle, glisten. לא or לוא: it is in general, an indefinite expansion, an absence without term expressed in an abstract sense by the relations, no, not, not at all. Definite direction, that is to say, that which is restrained by means of the assimilative sign Kaph, is opposed to it."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 377]

> With other vowel-points, it is a preposition meaning "to, toward, into, or against." Thus El, "God," is shown to be NO THING, yet at the same time a strong power, which is the cause of motion toward, into, or even against. see [61](61), [48](48), [560](560), [538](538).

God is a "being", not a "thing". Note that "things" do not have the ability to say "no"; rather, they must always say "yes" to circumstance. Divinity is that which can dis-identify with the enslaved Matter.

---

### [Chabuyah](/keys/ChBVIH) - חבויה
> 68th Shemhamphorash; angel of 2 of Cups. For the preservation of health and the healing of the sick. Governs agriculture and fecundity. Fond of the countryside, hunting, gardens and all that is related to agriculture. Godwin gives: *"Angel of 2nd quinance (6-10°) of Cancer; angel by night of the of 2 of Cups. This represents the subconscious influence of Chokmah, sphere of the zodiac, in Briah, the world of Creation."*

---

### [hakkaah](/keys/HKAH) - הכאה
> A beating, striking, collision.

---

### [IIAI](/keys/IIAI) - ייאי
> King of Swords. see Key of Solomon, figure 31.

---

### [huwk](/keys/HVK) - הוך
> A Chaldee verb meaning: "to go; to bring". The Nothing is the power which goes forth into every form of manifestation and brings about every phenomenon. see [511](511).

---

### [va-yehi](/keys/VIHI) - ויהי
> "And there was...." It is the manifestating force which came into operation when in response to the creative "let there be" ... *"And there was."* [Genesis 1:3](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-3.htm). This expression of for the compound word: ויהי אור, [vayehi aur](/keys/VIHI-AVR), *"and there was light".*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"ויהי. And there (shall be) became... I must not neglect to say, that Moses, profiting by the hieroglyphic Genius of the Egyptian tongue, changing at will the future tense into past tense, depicts, on this occasion, the birth of light, symbol of intelligible corporeality, with an animation that no modern tongue can render except the chinese. He writes first יהי-אור There shall be light; then repeating the same words with the single addition of the convertible sign vav, he turns suddenly, the future into the past, as if the effect had sustained before hand the outburst of the through ויהי-אור and there (shall be) light.*

> *This manner of speaking figuratively and hieroglyphically, always comes from the primitive meaning given to the בראשית [in the beginning, [913](913)]: for the heavens and the Earth created in principle, and raising from power, into action, could unfold successive their virtual forces only as the Divine will announced in the future, is manifest in the past. The being of beings knows no time. The Egyptian tongue is the only one in which this wonderful trope can take place even in the spoken tongue. It was a spoken effect which, form the hieroglyphic style passed into the figurative, and from the figurative into the literal."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, Cosmogony of Moses p. 33](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/32/mode/2up)]

---

### [Habuiah](/keys/ChBVIH) - חבויה
> "God who gives with Liberality." 68th Shemhamphorash. Degrees 336-340. Archtapias. May 26, August 6, October 17, December 28, March 10, 10:20 - 10:40pm. [Psalm 106:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/106-1.htm). For the preservation of health and the healing of the sick. Governs agriculture and fecundity. Fond of the countryside, hunting, gardens and all that is related to agriculture.

---

### [zahab tob](/keys/ZHB.TVB) - זהב טוב
> "Good Gold". [Genesis 2:12](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-12.htm). Also "Fine Gold" [2 Chronicles 3:5](http://biblehub.com/2_chronicles/3-5.htm). Refers to Yesod (see 3091?).

> The [Aesch Mezareph (II:9)](http://levity.com/alchemy/aesch2.html) says: "Zahav tob is referred to Yesod, that is good gold. [Genesis 2:12](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-12.htm). ('and the gold of that land is good: aromatic resin and onyx are also there.') for this kind is called good, after the manner of a good man... it became zahab tob, because it is so called according to [Lamentations 4:1](http://biblehub.com/lamentations/4-1.htm): How shall gold be colored with redness, and ma-kethem ho-tob i.e. good silver be changed?"

---

### [ake](/keys/AIK) - איך
> How? What? The no-thing is the reality which is the subject of inquiry in all questions beginning with How? or What? To attain this knowledge, *"Having emptied yourself, remain where you are."* [Lao-Tze]

---

### Greek/Latin:

---

### [Gaza](/latin?word=Gaza) (Lt)
> royal treasure, riches, wealth. The royal treasure is the indwelling presence of the One Power which is truly magical, because it is the power which sets the boundaries or defining limits of all forms. Through man it creates mental, emotional and physical riches which give dominion over the world of Assiah. To use our powers of desire correctly they must be set within exact bounds. Desire out of control is the cause of most of the sorrows and deprivations we experience in our incarnate existence (see [12](12) in Greek).

---

### English Gematria:

- [Life](/english?word=Life) *([Fama Intro p.12](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n12/mode/2up))*

### See Also:

- [4](4)
- Σ31 = [496](496)
