## 34 - Thirty-Four
> (2x17)

---

### [dal, dial](/keys/DL) - דל
> to move to and fro, to totter from weakness; weak, poor; a pauper, poor man; humble, lean, low; door, valve. [Psalm 141:3](http://biblehub.com/psalms/141-3.htm): *"Set a guard over my mouth, O Lord; keep watch over the door (valve) of my lips."*

> Recall the Qabalistic teaching of the occult correspondence between Jupiter and the Moon; these negative effects are produced by psychism. Thomas Troward says: *"The key note of this Psalm is personal confidence in God as the reciprocating personality. [PFC Comments]: What establishes this reciprocity is shown in the phrase אליך ׀ יהוה אדני עיני '[Mine eyes are unto thee, O God the Lord](/keys/ALIK.IHVH.ADNI.OINI)' = [292](292) = כה־אמר יהוה, '[Thus sayeth Tetragrammaton](/keys/KH-AMR.IHVH),' for when our mental gaze is fixed on Tetragrammaton Adonai, He sets a watch on out lips, and prevents the inclination of our hearts to evil. The wicked fall into their own nets. They are not punished by God, but they themselves set up the negative conditions which overwhelm them. He who knows therefore calmly leaves them to their own devices and seeks only to be preserved from falling into their errors."* [Troward on Psalms, pp. 192-93] see [924](924).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"This root, conceived as the union of the sign of natural abundance or of divisibility, with the root אל symbol of elevation, produces the idea of every extraction, every removal, as for example, when one draws water from a well, when one takes away the life of a plant; from this idea, proceeds necessarily the accessory ideas of exhaustion and weakness. The arabic [word] contains the same sense in general; but in particular, this root is attached more exclusively to the idea of distinguishing, designating conducting some one toward a distinct object. When it is weakened in [word]; it expresses no more than a distinction of scorn; disdain, degradation. דל - That which extracts; to draw or to attract above; that which takes away, drains; that which attenuates, consumes, enfeebles: every kind of division, distinction; emptiness effected by extraction; any kind of removal. In a very restricted sense, a seal; a vessel for drawing water."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 323]

---

### [lad](/keys/LD) - לד
> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"The expansive sign, joined to that of abundance born of division, or by contraction with the root אד, image of every emanation, composes a root whose purpose is to express every idea of propagation, of generation, of any extension whatsoever given to being. The Arabic [word] expresses in general the same ideas as the Hebraic root. In a restricted sense it is, to make manifest, to put forward, to discuss. The verb [word] characterizes the state of that which is realized, put at ease; to enjoy one's self, to delight in, etc. לד. That which is born, generated, propagated, bred, progenity, increase of family, race, linage: confinement, childbirth, etc."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 378-379]

---

### [yawdekah](/keys/IDK) - ידך
> 'your hand'. [Psalm 138:7](http://biblehub.com/psalms/138-7.htm): *"Though I walk in the midst of trouble, you preserve my life; you stretch out your hand against the anger of my foes, with your right hand you save me."*

> Thomas Troward: *"God recognized as universal is the saving principle. God's right hand is the working of the principle, whether in us, through us, or around us. God is 'savior of all them that put their trust in him.'"*

> Paul Case comments: *"The holy temple in the midst is the central point in our consciousness, where the throne is place, and this is the throne of the father, with the son at the right hand of the father. 'Thy right hand' is ימינך [yeminika](/keys/IMINK) = [130](130) = עין [Ayin](/keys/OIN), the eye."* [Troward on Psalms, pp 184 - 185]. see [130](130), [10](10), [20](20).

---

### [El-Ab](/keys/AL-AB) - אל־אב
> God the Father

---

### [ve-laib](/keys/BLB) - בלב
> the heart.

---

### [Chahaviah](/keys/ChHVIH) - חהויה
> Angel of 6th quinance of Scorpio.

---

### [Babel](/keys/BBL) - בבל
Babel. [Genesis 11:9](http://biblehub.com/genesis/11-9.htm): *"Therefore is the name of it called Babel; because the LORD did there confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did the LORD scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [alba](/greek?word=alba) (Gr) - αλβα
> white. The feminine form of the adjective. As a noun, the name of the mother city of Rome, and is some occult texts it is used as an allusion to Amia ([52](52)). By sacrifice and purification, or making white (alba) the animal and love nature (Mars-Venus) becomes זהב, Gold. This is an alchemical Key. see [7](7), [44](44), [21](21), [66](66), [28](28), [88](88), [6](6), [10](10), [22](22), [38](38).

---

### [amare](/latin?word=amare) (Lt)
[love](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=amare), like; fall in love with; be fond of; have a tendency to;

> *"Our heart is also reformed in like manner, when in everything... (4) we love Him only--**amare.**"* {[Karl von Eckartshausen, The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary, letter VI](cloud-upon-sanctuary)}

---

### See Also:

- [7](7)