## 34 - Thirty-Four

### alba (Gr) - αιβα
> white. The feminine form of the adjective. As a noun, the name of the mother city of Rome, and is some occult texts it is used as an allusion to Amia (52). By sacrifice and purification, or making white (alba) the animal and love nature (Mars-Venus) becomes ZHB, Gold. This is an alchemical Key. see 7, 44, 21, 66, 28, 88, 6, 10, 22, 38.

34 (2x17)
DL dal, dial. to move to and fro, to totter from weakness; weak,
poor; a pauper, poor man; humble, lean, low; door, valve. [Psalm
141:3] "Set a guard over my mouth, O Lord; keep watch over the
door (valve) of my lips." Recall the Qabalistic teaching of the
occult correspondence between Jupiter and the Moon; these
negative effect are produced by psychism. Thomas Torward says:
"The key note of this Psalm is personal confidence in God as the
reciprocating personality." PFC comments: "What establishes this
reciprocity is show in the phrase ALID IHVH ADNI OINI 'Mine eyes
are unto thee, O God the Lord' = 292 = KCh-AMR IHVH, 'Thus sayth
Tetragrammation,' for when our mental gaze is fixed on
Tetragrammaton Adonai, He sets a watch on out lips, and prevents
the inclination of our hearts to evil. The wicked fall into their
own nets. They are not punished by God, but thet themselves set
up the negative conditions which overwhelm them. He who knows
therefore calmly leaves them to their own devices and seeks only
to be preserved from falling into their errors." [Troward on
Psalms, pp. 192-93] see 924. Fabre D'Olivet comments: "This root,
conceived as the union of the sign of natural abundance or of
divisibility, with the root AL symbol of elevation, produces the
idea of every extraction, every removal, as for example, when one
draws water from a well, when one takes away the life of a plant;
from this idea, proceeds necessarily the accessory ideas of
exhaustion and weakness. The arabic [word] contains the same
sense in general; but in particular, this root is attached more
exclusively to the idea of distinguishing, designating conducting
some one toward a distinct object. When it is weakened in ***; it
expresses no more than a distinction of scorn; disdain,
degradation. DL. That which extracts; to draw or to attract
above; that which takes away, drains; that which attenuates,
consumes, enfeebles: every kind of division, distinction;
emptiness effected by extraction; any kind of removal. In a very
restricted sense, a seal; a vessel for drawing water." [The
Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 323]
LD. Fabre D'Olivet comments: "The expansive sign, joined to that
of abundance born of division, or by contraction with the root
AD, image of every emanation, composes a root whose purpose is to
express every idea of propagation, of generation, of any
extension whatsoever given to being. The Arabic [word] expresses
in general the same ideas as the Hebraic root. In a restricted
sense it is, to make manifest, to put forward, to discuss. The
verb **** characterizes the state of that which is realized, put
at ease; to enjoy one's self, to delight in, etc. LD. That which
is born, generated, propagated, bred, progenity, increase of
family, race, linage: confinement, childbirth, etc." [The Hebrew
Tongue Restored, p. 378-379]
IDK yawdekah. "your hand' [Psalm 138:7]. "Though I walk in the
midst of trouble, you preserve my life; you stretch out your hand
against the anger of my foes, with your right hand you save me."
Thomas Troward: "God recognized as universal is the saving
principle. God's right hand is the working of the principle,
whether in us, through us, or around us. God is 'savior of all
them that put their trust in him.'" Paul Case comments: "The holy
temple in the midst is the central point in our consciousness,
where the throne is place, and this is the throne of the father,
with the son at the right hand of the father. 'Thy right hand' is
MINI = 130 OIN, the eye = MLAK HGAL, the angel of redemption."
[Troward on Psalm, pp 184 - 185]. see 130, 10, 20.
AL AB. God the Father.
BLB ve-laib. the heart.
ChHVIH Chahaviah. Angel of 6th quinance of Scorpio.