## 35 - Thirty-Five
> (7x5). Summation of every line of a magic square of Jupiter. Sum of the 2nd ([8](8)) and 3rd ([27](27)) cubic numbers. The measure of the perimeters of the heptagon forming the top and
bottom of the vault of brother CR.

> There is a tradition that the Pythagoreans called 35 "harmony". This implies the perfect equilibrium of coordinated forces and agrees with other meaning of [7](7). 35 is the sum of [8](8) and [27](27), the cubes of 2 and 3. Thus it represents the perfected expression of wisdom (2), combined with the fully manifested expression of understanding (3), because the cube, or threefold multiplication, of a number symbolizes the complete manifestation of the power of that number. 35 is also the perimeter of the ceiling and floor of the vault (7 sides times 5).

> Philo: 35 comes from the double diagram of arithmetic, geometry and harmony; but 16+18+19+21 the combination of which numbers amount to [74](74) is that according to which seven-month's children are born. 35 is the 4th pentagonal or quinquangular number [Paul Case: notes on numbers]

---

### [AGLA](/keys/AGLA) - אגלא
> Notariqon for [Ateh Gebur Le-Olahm Adonai](/keys/AThH.GBVR.LOVLM.ADNI). *"Thine is the power through the endless ages, O Lord."* (see [858](858))

---

### [gahbal, gobel](/keys/GBL) - גבל
> to draw a boundary, to set bounds, to border upon, adjoin. as a noun, edge, boundary, landmark (see [91](91), [231](231)).

---

### [yehak](/keys/IHK) - יהך
> he will go.

---

## Latin/Greek:

---

### [pax](/latin?word=pax) (Lt)
> peace. From a root akin to a sanskrit word meaning "to bind." Literally, Pax is the "binding or fastening thing." It signifies dominion and empire. It implies silence as when we say "he held his peace." Note that this last meaning connects with those of [Key 7](7) as representing control of speech. The dominion (pax) of spirit is the outcome of its ability to determine the exact limits of every one of its manifestations, form the least to the greatest (see [70](70) [hasseh](/keys/HSH), [376](376), [31](31) Latin).

---

### [per](/latin?word=per) (Lt)
> through. it is through peace tat we gain the royal treasure. part of an inscription found in the vault of CR includes the phrase "through the Holy spirit we become alive again." (see [683](683) (Lt), [214](214))

---

### English Gematria:

- [here](/english?word=here) *([Fama Intro p.13](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13/mode/2up))*

---


### See Also:

- [8](8)
