## 37 - Thirty-Seven
> Prime. Number of degrees in the smallest angle of the Pythagorean Triangle. "Therefore the number 37 defines the union of the Son, Horus, with the Mother, Isis." The glyph of mercury: circle (22) + cross (4) + crescent (11).

> Sattva, or alchemical Mercury, is the attribute of Yekhidah. The numeral value of יחידה, Yekhidah, is 37, [which] signifies the principle which maintains the relation of the evolving forms of the Life-power to Isis, or Mother Nature. The Supreem SELF, Yekhidah, is this principle [GW L13]. It is the epithet of the soul of life of Israel = 0 unit in arithmetic. In Tarot it applies to Virgo (3+7=10). 37 is multiplied into many names and epithets of Jesus Christ. In the New Testament Jesus calls himself "Son of Man" 37 times. (Greek = 2380). The Zohar (123A) says from Isaac's birth to the time of his being bound were thus the real life of Sarah, as indicated in the expression "and the Life of Sarah **was** [wayihiyu](keys/VIHIV)," the word ויהיו having the numerical value of 37. The *Garden of Pomegranates* gives 12 trials on the Tree of Life with a pendant Malkuth in Assiah. 3x12 + 1 = 37 *[Gematria PFC]*

>	37 x 1 =  37 } 1
>	37 x 2 =  74 } 2
>	37 x 3 = 111 } 3
>	37 x 4 = 148 } 4
>	37 x 5 = 185 } 5
>	37 x 6 = 222 } 6
>	37 x 7 = 259 } 7
>	37 x 8 = 296 } 8
>	37 x 9 = 333 } 9

> 37 is the sum of the squares of 1 and 6, or 1 + 36, so that its basic numeral properties are a combination of the *powers* of 1, or [Kether](/keys/KThR), with those of 6, or [Tiphareth](/keys/ThPARTh).

### [Yekhidah](/keys/IChIDH) - יחידה 

> I AM, The Supreme Self, the Only One, the single, the indivisible. The cosmic SELF seated in Kether and associated with the Hermit, "He who stands alone." Yekhidah is the Cosmic Logos, as the Solar Logos or Christos is the Logos of our system of planets revolving around the sun. Yekhidah is the Supreme Head of the universal system designated by the term Rashith Ha-Galgalim, "Head (or beginning) of the Whirlings".

> Yekhidah (Hindu Ishvara) the Supreme Ruler, the One Identity, the Self is a point of expression for a dynamic energy, a point through which that energy passes continually. "Qabalists indicate this realization [Of the meaning of I am, 21] by יחידה, the feminine form of יחד, [yachad](/keys/IChD), unity. The feminine construction shows that although the I am is one and alone, it is also conceived in the ageless wisdom as the vehicle for AIN SVP AVR. As a vehicle, or receptacle, it is therefore feminine." [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p. 467] see [149](149) (Latin), [620](620), [111](111).

Alone, solitary, indivisible. The Unique. In [Kether](620) is seated Yekhidah.

### [Ha-kabode](/keys/H.KBVD) - ה כבוד
> The weight; the glory; gravitation. The mass or potential working power concentrated at the center. The rolled-up scrool or seed-idea of the high Priestess, concentrated in the Primal Will at the beginning of a cycle of the Life-power's self-expression (see [237](237)).

The Law of Attraction. H="The" K="Grasping Hand" B="Home" V="Hook" D="Door". Or, "Knock, and the door will be opened..."

### [Abel](/keys/HBL) - הבל
To breathe, to evaporate; nothingness, empty, vanity. Adam's second son.

> "to breathe," or "a fleeting breath", vapor, hot air. The Talmud signifies "to evaporate." Denotes "transitoriness, emptiness," and is translated "vanity"(to be in vain), in the English version of Ecclesiastes. From it is derived the proper name Abel, given to the second son of Adam and Eve and killed by Cain. #[160](160). Refers to the volatility of the Mercury principle, and its close link with breath, or air, which the Hindus call Prana, the Greeks Pneuma, and the Hebrews Ruach.

> [Job 7:16](http://biblehub.com/job/7-16.htm): *"I loathe it [my life]; I would not always live: let me alone, for my days are a fleeting breath."* [Ecclesiasties 11:10](http://biblehub.com/ecclesiastes/11-10.htm): *"Therefore remove sorrow from your heart, and put away evil from your flesh: for childhood and youth are vanity."*

> Understood to be a type of the Messiah to whom the mystical name Shiloh is given. see [345](345), [13](13). Suggests that even the slightest and most fleeting expressions of the cosmic Life-breath are essentially identical with the eternal self. Root word of all New testament appellations of Jesus, which are multiples of 37. see [2368](2368).

> The root-word of all new testament appellations of Jesus (See 2368) which are multiples of 37. From root "to breath, to wave"- the rhythmic motion of the Life-breath. Heh is "the" the definite article. בל is "not" equivalent in meaning to לא, the metathesis of אל, El, strength. Refers to the truth that all things are transitory expressions of the strength (אל) which is notanything. בל is the aramaic word for "hearts", and originally meant "courage or strength." It is also a contraction of בול, Master or Lord. Thus הבל may be read as the (ה) No-thing, the Lord, whose strength is the heart or core of all things (בל). Also בל is 32 so that HLB may be read as "The 32," referring to the complete manifestation of the 32 paths of Wisdom.

### [Uwl](/keys/AVL) - אול
To twist.

> And he carried away Jehoiachin to Babylon, and the king's mother, and the king's wives, and his officers, and the **mighty** of the land, those carried he into captivity from Jerusalem to Babylon. *[2 Kings 24:15](http://biblehub.com/2_kings/24-15.htm)*

> For there are no bands in their death: but their **strength** is firm. *[Psalm 73:4](http://biblehub.com/psalms/73-4.htm)*

### [uwl, owl](/keys/AVL) -  - אול
> might, physical power. from a root meaning "to twist." Sometimes used as a noun to designate the human body as being rolled together. [2 Kings 24:15](http://biblehub.com/2_kings/24-15.htm) "And he carried away Jehoichin to Babylon, and the King's mother, and the King's wives, and his officers, and the mighty of the land, those he carried into captivity from Jerusalem to Babylon." [Psalm 73:4](http://biblehub.com/psalms/73-4.htm) "For there are no bands in their death, but their strength is firm."

### [Alah](/keys/ALAH) - אלאה
> a form of an Aramaic (Chaldee) name of God, compare with the Arabic Allah. see [ALH](/keys/ALH).

### [aluw](/keys/ALV) - אלו
> (aluw, iluw, aelloo). as a particle, "lo, behold" (Aramaic). see 21, khesev. As a conjunction, "if, but" (ALV)-suggests conditional existence. Also "these", as the multiplicity of "separate" objects presented to the mind as part of the various phases of conditional existence.

### [balah](/keys/BLH) - בלה
> to palpitate, to trouble, (a primitive Hebrew root) "The waters were troubled." From this basic idea are derived two opposite meanings: 1. to wear out, to decay; 2. to spend time; to be prolonged; to use; to enjoy.

### [ha-bal](/keys/HBL) - הבל
> the heart (Aramaic). differently pointed, also "the lord", "the husband", applied to the Christos, in a Qabalistic sense.

### [gadal](/keys/GDL) - גדל
> a primitive root like [AVL] signifies primarily "to twist." It has a great variety of meanings as a verb, depending on the context; but, like these meanings always imply power, and also size and weight. It indicates the spiral, whirling motion associated with Key 10 and Jupiter, as well as with Kether. It has a secondary meaning of "to be strong, to be first, to be foremost or chief". This idea of magnitude is more definitely expressed by the feminine noun Gedulah, usually translated "magnificence."

### [Heh, Vav, Zain, Teth, Yod](/keys/H.V.Z.T.I) - ה ו ז ט י
> The 5 letter to which are attributed the 5 senses. ה: sight, ו: hearing, ז: smell, ט: taste, י: touch. A hint that the SELF is a focus for the subtle principles of sensation (tattvas).

### [zal](/keys/ZL) - זל
> giver, profuse, lavish. An intimation of the wealth of power centered in Kether. תת זל, [Tayth Zal](/keys/ThTh.ZL), is one name for Kether (see [837](837) Tayth Zal).

### [laz](/keys/LZ) - לז
> division of force.

### [kebodah](/keys/KBVDH) - כבודה
> glorious. [Psalm 45:13](http://biblehub.com/psalms/45-13.htm): "The king's daughter is all-glorious within," Kebodah refers particularly to Malkuth, which is sometimes called "Bride," and "Daughter." Remember, "Kether is in Malkuth, and Malkuth is in Kether, but after another manner." This is akin to the Hermetic axiom: "That which is above is as that which is below, and that which is below is as that which is above." The root meaning of kabodah, is ponderability or weight, i.e., that which is manifest as gravitation. see [44](44) [lahat](/keys/LHT).

### [dagal](/keys/DGL) - דגל
> banner. The adytum of the One Self is the banner of deity.

### [lahab](/keys/LHB) - להב
> flame. see [44](44).

### [achaiah](/keys/AKAIH) - אכאיה
> "god good and patient". 31-35°. Genie. CLOÜS, Mercury. March 26, June 6, August 16, October 28, January 8. 2:00-2:20 AM [Psalm 103:8 "Miserata et misericus: longanimis, et multum misericus"].

> Rules patience, discovers the secrets of nature; influences the propagation of enlightenment and aids industry. Persons born: loves to instruct himself in useful things; glories in the execution of the most difficult works and discovers many useful processes in the arts.

> 7th Shemhamphorash; 8 of Pentacles

> Godwin gives: Akaih; angel of the 1st quinance (1-5°) of Virgo; angel by day of the 8 of Pentacles. this represents the operation of Hod, sphere of Mercury, in Assiah, the material world. Davidson translates this name as "trouble:, and says that in the Qabalah, he is one of 8 Seraphim [Dictionary of Angels, p. 6]

### [valu](/keys/VAL) - ואל
> Gothic demon by night of the 2nd decante of Sagittarius. [Mathers]

### [lav](/keys/LAV) - לאו
> 11th name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 5th quinace (21 - 25°) of Virgo. see 52, 1525.

### [lau](/keys/LAV) - לאו
> 17th name of shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 5th quinance (21-25°) of Libra. see 52, 1525.

### [vachezwe](/keys/VChZVI) - וחזוי
and the visions. [Daniel 2:28](http://biblehub.com/daniel/2-28.htm): *"Your dream and the visions that passed through your mind"*

## Greek/Latin:

### [He thibe](/greek?word=h+thibh) (Gr) - η θιβη
> Ark [Exodus 2:2 in the Greek Septuagint](http://biblehub.com/exodus/2-3.htm). The ark in the bulrushes (Moses). The life-power is the ark which preserves us from every danger. Both it and Noah's ark suggest preservation of Life, and the transition from one cycle of the Life-power's manifestation to another. The point of "beginning," which is really a point of transition from relative quiescence to a period of relative activity, is symbolized as an ark.

### [linea](/latin?word=linea) (Lt)
> line, boundary, limit, goal. see [Qav](/keys/QV), [106](106).

### [Non](/latin?word=Non) (Lt)
> Not, nothing. compare to הבל above.

### [Draco](/latin?word=Draco) (Latin)
> Dragon. The Alchemical serpent power. see [358](358). In the book of Lambspring "A savage dragon lives in the forest ([56](56) Latin), most venomous he is, yet lacking nothing: when he sees the rays of the sun and its birth fire, he scatters abroad his poison, and flies upward so fiercely that no living creature can stand before him, nor is even the basilisk equal to him." [Hermetic Museum I, p. 286]. Case: Draco = 37 = Panacea. see [72](72) (Latin).

### [Panacea](/latin?word=Panacea) (Latin)
> Universal medicine. Concerning the dragon, or serpent-power, it is said "He who hath skill, to slay him, wisely hath escaped from all dangers, yet all venom and colors, are multiplied in the hour of his death. His venom becomes the great medicine. He quickly consumes his venom, for he devours his poisonous tail. All this is performed on his own body, form which flows forth glorious balm, with all its miraculous virtues. Here all the sages do loudly rejoice." [Hermetic Museum I, p. 286]. see [72](72) (Latin).

### [tu](/latin?word=tu) (Latin)
> thou, you (singular form). "Thou art that."

### [vas](/latin?word=vas) (Latin)
> vase. An alchemical term describing the "vase of art." The vase is Tu and Tu is also IChIDH. see [1630](1630), [202](202).

### [mihi](/latin?word=mihi) (Latin)
> to me. Part of a phrase, "Jesus is all things to me", and a second phrase found written on the altar in the vault of C.R. see [150](150), [475](475) (Latin).

### [cardo](/latin?word=cardo) (Latin)
> hinge (of a door); the point round which anything turns, a pole; a chief circumstance, or consideration upon which many others depend, i.e. cardinal.

### [omega](/latin?word=omega) (Latin)
> Latin transliteration of Greek Omega, meaning the last, ending. Part of the a phrase. see [94](94), [717](717) (Latin).
