## 38 - Thirty-Eight
> (2x19). Perimeter of a dodecahedron (Ether).

---

### [galah](/keys/GLH) - גלה
> to lay bare, to denude, to strip of concealment (see [114](114)). to expose or reveal; to open (a book). [Amos 3:37](http://biblehub.com//.htm)

> letter by letter גלה means: ג: Success in the Great Work depends on the discovery of the 1st matter. In order to expose it we must employ the power of recollection and association represented by the High Priestess (holding a rolled up scroll) who is a symbol of the 1st matter. ל: True faith which takes form in persevering action in the daily test and trial where no visible success is evident; ה: the discovery is to be made with the mind--in the light of reason and of the dominion over the conditions of physical existence.
*

---

### [leakh](/keys/LCh) - לח
> vigor, natural force. [Deuteronomy 34:7](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/34-7.htm). *"And Moses was an hundred and twenty years old when he died: his eye was not dim, nor his natural force (vigor) abated."* Lakh. As an adjective moist, fresh, new, unused; liquid.

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"לח. Every movement directed toward elementary existence and making effort to produce itself, to make its appearance. The Arabic [word] develops in general, all ideas of conhesion, of contaction, and retains only the physical and material acceptations of the Hebraic root.*

> *לח Natural vigour; innate movement of vegatation; radical moisture: that which is verdant, young, moist, fresh; that which is glowing with youth, beauty, freshness; that which is smooth, soft to the touch; etc."* [The Hebraic Tongue Restored, pp. 380- 81]

---

### [azal](/keys/AZL) - אזל
> moving one thning through another, spinning, "He departed." also אזל, [awzal](/keys/AZL), to go, to be gone, to be exhausted.

---

### [Chal](/keys/ChL) - חל
> Wall, rampart. Root of חלט, Khalat, to catch, to ascertain, to decide (see [6](6), [14](14), [10](10), [22](22), [47](47)). Also חל (chol), profane, unholy, to make a hole, hollow; to violate.

> According to Fabre D'Olivet: *"חל Hel. This root, composed of the sign of elementary existence united to the root AL, symbol of extensive force and of every movement which bears upward, produces a mass of ideas which is very difficult to fix accurately. It is, in general, a superior effort which causes a distention, extension, realization; it is all unknown force which breaks the bonds of bodies by stretching them, breaking them, reducing them to shreds, or by dissolving them, relaxing them to excess.*

> *חל every idea of extension, effort, made up a thing to extend, develop, stretch or conduct it to a point or end, a twinge, a pain: a preserving movement; hope, expectation.*

> *The Arabic [word] develops, in general, all the ideas contained in the Hebraic root. In a restricted sense it is the action of loosening, relaxing, releasing, resolving, absolving, etc. When the root receives the guttural reinforcement, it express in [Arabic word] the state of privation, indigence; that which lacks, which is wanting, in any manner whatsoever. חל and לל (intensive) distention, distortion; contortion; endurance; solution of continuity; an opening, a wound: extreme relaxation, dissolution, profanation, pollution, weakness, infirmity, debility, vanity, effeminate dress, ornament; a flute; a dissolute dance, a frivolous amusement, etc."* [The Hebraic Tongue Restored, pp. 350-51]

---

### [Gehazi](/keys/GIChZI) - גיחזי
> "Valley of Vison". Servant to the prophet Elisha. [2 Kings 8:4](http://biblehub.com/2_kings/8-4.htm). *"And the King talked with Gehazi, the servant of the man of God, saying, tell me, I pray thee, all the great things that Elisha hath done."* It is hinted in Aesch Mezarerh that [two words unreadable] the "pretender to alchemy."

---

### [zakkai](/keys/ZKAI) - זכאי
> Innocent, guiltless, righteous, desrving, worth, entitle to.

---

### [cheyaykh](/keys/ChIK) - חיך
> to smile. also, the palate.

---

### [Awal](/keys/AVAL) - אואל
> Night demon of the 2nd decanate of Cancer. This decanate has the sub-rulership of Mars and suggest subconscious obsession with the Mars force through incubia and succubi.

---

## Latin/Greek

---

### [Maria](/latin?word=maria) (Latin)
> Mary. Literally "seas". Relates to the great sea of Binah ([67](67)) as the mother of all manifested life. Mother of Jesus.

---

### See Also:

- [11](11)
- [2](2)
