## 39 - Thirty-Nine
> ([3](3)x[13](13)). Diagonal of a rectangle 15 by 36.

---

### [zabal](/keys/ZBL) - 
> to enclose, reside; to exalt; zabel. as a masculine noun: dung, manure.

---

### [tal](/keys/TL) - 
> dew. Used in alchemical texts in relation to first matter. From a root: "to cover" (see [343](343), [434](434)).

---

### [Tetragrammaton Echad](/keys/IHVH.AChD) - 
> "The Lord is One." [Deut 6:4]. "Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God is One Lord." The great affirmation of unity which is the basis of Judaism. see [3](3), [12](12), [21](21), [30](30), [48](48), [7](7).

---

### [lat](/keys/LT) - 
> concealed, secret; enchantment. lawt. magic art.

---

### [awchaykaw](/keys/AChIK) - 
> "thy brother." [Gen 4:9, 10:11] "And the Lord said unto Cain, where is Abel thy Brother? And he said, I know not: am I my brother's keeper? And he said, what hast thou done? The voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground. And now thou art cursed from the earth, which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand." see [37](37), [160](160), [496](496), [519](519).

---

### [kuzu](/keys/KVZV) - 
> metathesis of IHVH. see 26.

---

### [khuka](/keys/ChVKH) - 
> misdeed, trespass [Sepher Yetzirah 2:1] "The three mother letters, Shin-Mem-Aleph have as their basis the balance. In one scale is the merit, and in the other misdeed [criminality]. Which are placed in equilibrium by the tongue [Yod]."

---

### [Yechoiah](/keys/IChVIH) - 
> "God who knows all things." Angel of 3 of Pentacles (Binah of Assiah). (33 Shemhamphorash to 40 Shemhamphorash belong to the order of angels, "the Choir of Powers") 161째 - 165째. ?Onestucati?, Venus, April 21, July ?, ???, November 23, February 3. 10:40 - 11:00 AM. "The Lord bringeth the counsel of the heathen to naught..." To know traitors, to destroy their projects and their machinations. ?Protects? all ??? princes; maintains their subjects under obedience. Person born: Love to ??? all the duties of his state. Varian spelling, see [36](36), [965](965), [1525](1525). Godwin gives: Yechaviah; angel of the 3rd quinance (11째-15째) of Capricorn; angel by day of the 3 of Pentacles. This represents the influence of Binah, sphere of Saturn in Assiah, the material world of action. See [24](24).

---

### English Gematria:

- [Dream](/english?word=Dream) *([Fama Intro p.12](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n12/mode/2up))*

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
