## 40 - Forty
> (5x8) Number of weeks of the gestation of a human child. Number of days and lights it rained during the Biblical Flood.

### [Mem](/keys/M) - מ
> One of the 3 mother letters. Mem refers to the alchemical idea tht the element of Water is the source of form, associated with the creative letter Heh, and tht the multiplication of forms is the apparent subdivision of the ONE into various parts. So the verb ברא, [bawraw](/keys/BRA) ([203](203)), which is usually rendered "create", also means primarily "to cut out, to cut apart" -- the diversifying power of Binah, the root of Water.

> *"The Mem, whose name's primary meaning is "water", represents in its form as well as its name various bodies of water...it resembles a womb, which for the fetus is a "fountain of life." In Hebrew, the word אם, mother, also means "womb." Its essential consonant is the letter Mem. In most languages Mem is the basic sound of "mother." In general, the symbol of mother nature, Eve, "the mother of all life," is the womb of all (manifest) existence. This is after she ascends in aspiration--the secret of the letter Lamed--to receive from Adam the seed of life."* [The Alef-Beit, Rabbi Ginsburgh]

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"This character as consonant, belongs to the nasal sound. As symbolic image it represents woman, mother, companion of man; that which is productive, creative. As grammatical sign, it is the maternal and female sign of exterior and passive action; placed at the beginning of words it depicts that which is local and plastic; placed at the end, it becomes the collective sign, developing the being in infinitive space, as far as its nature permits, or unity by abstraction, in one single being all those of the same kind. In Hebrew it is the extractive or partitive article...expressing in nouns or actions that sort of movement by which a name or an action, it taken for means or instrument, is divided in its essence, or is drawn from the midst of several other similar nouns or actions.*

> *The Hebraist grammarians while considering this character as heemanthe have not ceased, nevertheless, to confound it with the words which it modifies as sign, as I shall show in several important examples in my notes.* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.385]

> *EXTRACTIVE or PARTITIVE ARTICLE. The movement which this article expresses, with nouns or actions is taken for the means, for the instrument, by which they are divided in their essence, or drawn from the midst of several other nouns or similar actions. I render it ordinarily by from, out of, by; with, by means of, among, between, etc.* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.112]

### [bakhal](/keys/BChL) - בחל
> to loathe, feel nausea. The state of consciousness preceding the attainment of the consciousness symbolized by [Key 12](12).

### [bokhal](/keys/BChL) - בחל
> the ripening (of figs); puberty of women.

### [gawzal](/keys/GZL) - גזל
> to cut off or flay, to take away, to strip off, as skin from the flesh; to rob or plunder. Refers to the alchemical idea that the element water is the source of form, associated with the creative letter Heh and the multiplication of forms is the apparent subdivision of the ONE into various parts. חבל [chawbal](/keys/ChBL). As a verb it means: to twist, to wind together, to bind; to pledge; to pervert, to damage, to act corruptly, to sin, to wound. As a noun (cheybel), a cord, a rope; pain, sorrow; a measuring line; a snare. Limitation and measurement are inseparable from creation--the One Life sacrifices itself for manifestation, which is a source of pain and sorrow. This world is a delusion and a snare to those who misapprehend the meaning of its appearances. Also with different points: woe! Oh! Alas!; what a pity! This mixture is a breaking up of "the still calm of Pure Being..." A sense in which the original purity of the subsisting ONE is damaged or destroyed by the creative process.

### [chawlawb](/keys/ChLB) - חלב
> milk, With different vowels: cheyeleyb, meaning: fatness; the best of it. The "Virgin's Milk" or alchemical water. From the element of Water the Wise derive all their supplies of substance for manifestation.

### [Yod Tetragrammaton](/keys/ID.IHVH) - יד יהוה
> the hand of Jehovah (formative power). [Ezekiel 1:3](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/1-3.htm): *"The had of the Lord was upon him."* Signifies the formation power of the One Reality. Alchemical Water is the agency or power whereby the One Reality projects its creative energy into specific forms (see [90](90)).

### [vahlahd](/keys/VLD) - ולד
> child boy; infant, embryo; young of an animal.

### [Goale](/keys/GVAL) - גואל
> redeemer, savior, messiah, liberator, a title of Yesod. Also kinsman, relative. [Jeremiah 59:20](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/59-20.htm): *"and a redeemer will come to Zion."* see [233](233), [4](4), [400](400), [233](233), [44](44).

> (It is important for the understanding of the passage cited, [Job 19:25](http://biblehub.com/job/19-25.htm). (My redeemer, [44](44)), to know that the fundamental meaning of גול, "Redeemer" is a blood relative, or one next of kin.)

### [Li](/keys/LI) - לי
> to me, to mine. We shall come to the redeemer, when we hear the call. We are driven (Lamed) to the Father (Yod).

### [tahlah](/keys/TLA) - טלא
> To patch; to cover with spots. [Genesis 30:20](http://biblehub.com/genesis/30-20.htm).

### [lahah](/keys/LHH) - להה
> To languish, faint. Paul Case: to be exhausted, to faint; to be foolish or mad. "Water" causes illusion, delusion and snare, as well as being the great healer.

### [lat](/keys/LAT) - לאט
> Secret; to wrap, cover; to speak gently.

### [bildad](/keys/BLDD) - בלדד
> The second of Job's three friends. He is called the "Shuhite," which implies both his family and his nation. [Job 2:11](http://biblehub.com/job/2-11.htm). Shuhite is a region on the western side of Chaldea, bordering on Arabia where the Tsukhi, a powerful people, are found. [William Smith-dictionary of the Bible] Shuah was a son of Abraham [Genesis 25:2, 6](http://biblehub.com/genesis/25-2.htm). Bilad means "Bel loves". Bel was the Babylonian analog of Jupiter, connected with champion of the gods and savior.

## Greek/Latin:

### [sol](/latin?word=sol) (Lt)
> The sun; gold.

### [catena](/latin?word=catena) (Lt)
> A chain; things linked by common interest or logical series. Used in SECRET SYMBOLS, plate 33 to illustrate the same basic idea as that which is symbolized by the Tree of Life, with its connecting paths.

### See Also:

- [4](4)