## 41 - Forty-One
> (prime) (4x4 + 5x5)

---

### [ayil](/keys/AIL) - איל
> strength, power. with different vowel points: terebinth, oak. Also: ram, head, chief, mighty one; pilaster, buttress. The meaning ram relates it to Aries ([teleh](/keys/TLH), טלה, a young lamb). All these meanings are connected with the letter Heh through the sign Aries (see [44](44)).

---

### [Am](/keys/AM) - אם
> womb. origin, commencement; mother; basis. Refers of Binah (Aima) as when it is said [חכמה אב בינה אם] *"Wisdom is the Father, Understanding the Mother."* (see [67](67), [155](155)).

---

### [Im](/keys/AM) - אם
> if, whether (conjunction); when, on, condition, in case..

---

### [gabal, gebool](/keys/GBVL) - גבול
> to set bounds; border, boundary, limit, territory, district, province (as a distinct from Jerusalem and the temple). Used in the Book of Formation to indicate the 12 directions of space corresponding to the edges of the cube. They are called "the Boundaries of the World." [Chapter 5, section 2] also: גבול, kneading.

---

### [eli](/keys/ALI) - אלי
> my God, my Hero. Also a proper name. Refers to the deity name of Chesed and has the same basic meaning of strength as its metathesis [איל]. [Psalm 18:3](http://biblehub.com/psalms/18-3.htm).

---

### [Yah Tetragrammaton](/keys/IH.IHVH) - יה יהוה
> Lord God. [Psalm 118:5,6](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=psalms+118%3A5-6&version=AKJV;WLC) *"I called upon the Lord in distress: The Lord answered me, and set me in a large place. The Lord is on my side: I will not fear: What can man do unto me?"* In this Psalm יה, [Yah](/keys/IH), ends the 5th verse, and יהוה begins the 6th; and the Qabalistic use of this combination is to represent the union of Chokmah, Father (יה) with Tiphareth, Son (יהוה). see [67](67), [4](4), [15](15), [105](105).

---

### [ahlab, aleawb](/keys/AChLB) - אחלב
> "fatness, fertility." Name of the City of Asher [= sublimation = Libra = [501](501)]. [Judges 1:31](http://biblehub.com/judges/1-31.htm): *"Neither did Asher drive out the inhabitants of...Ahlab."*

---

### [bawtel](/keys/BTL) - בטל
> To stop, cease, to cease to exist; to be idle, stop work; to be void, abolish, suspend. Also: בטל, to abolish, suspend, dispense with, cancel, deface, neglect; to neutralize an admixture of forbidden food in a certain quantity; to disturb, interfere with; to negate. Suggest inertia-lack of "strength."

---

### [gavel](/keys/GAVAL) - גאואל
> "Majesty of God". An angel sent by God to create Adam from the dust. A mission also ascribed to Gabriel [Davidson]. "Majesty" is connected with Chesed.

---

### [gahal](/keys/GChL) - גחל
> burning coals; to burn slowly; carbuncles (skin infection).

---

### [hul](/keys/HVL) - הול
> terror.

---

### [chagal](/keys/ChGL) - חגל
> to go round in a circle. see [Key 10](10), [Kaph](/keys/K).

---

### [elud](/keys/ALVD) - אלוד
> Night demon of the 1st decanate of Virgo. This decanate is ruled by Mercury and suggest attention placed on wrong images, resulting in unbalanced assimilation.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [amor](/latin?word=amor) (Lt)
> love.

---

### [fides](/latin?word=fides) (Lt)
> Faith.

---

### English Gematria:

- [False](/english?word=False) *([Fama Intro p.14](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n14/mode/2up))*

---

### See Also:

- [5](5)
