## 42 - Forty-Two
2x3x7.

### [Amah](/keys/AMA) - אמא
> The dark, sterile Mother. Binah as the feminine power of specializing and finitizing prior to manifestation of actual forms *"The Eternal Parent, wrapped in her ever-invisible robes, had slumbered once again for seven eternities."* [Book of Dzyan]. see [52](52), 67, [86](86), 114, 199, 265 *[Gematria PFC]*

### [Eloah](/keys/ALVH) - אלוה
> [[Job 19:26]()]. A name of God from the same root as [Elohim](86), the Divine name assigned to Binah.

### [Beliy](/keys/BLI) - בלי
> Failure, destruction; no, not, without. Since Binah finitizes, the third Sephirah is the seat of the restrictive power by means of which separation is brought about. Hence is Binah also the Sphere of Saturn.

### [Balah](/keys/BHLH) - בהלה
> Dismay, terror, confusion, shock; sudden haste. All these words apply to Binah as the dark, sterile, "terrible" mother. Without balance from the masculine principle, her energy turns upon itself.

### [Balahah](/keys/BLHH) - בלהה
> Terror, horror, calamity. also Bilhah; Rachel's handmaiden; mother of Dan [#[54](54)] and Naphtali [#[570](570)]. [Genesis 29:29](http://biblehub.com/genesis/29-29.htm): *"Laban gave his servant girl Bilhah to his daughter Rachel as her maidservant."* Inman says the name is derived from BL, Bel and HVH: "Bel creates", or Bel moves around us." [Ancient Faiths Embodied in Ancient Names, p. 368]

### [kheled](/keys/ChLD) - חלד
> What glides swiftly, what is transient. A noun for life, it refers to the personal life of man, considered as being fleeting, ephemeral. Kheled is also a special Qabalistic name for the "earth" of Malkuth. There is a very definite relationship between Binah, the Mother, and Malkuth, the Bride. Kheled, in this connection, refers to the world of man, including his terrestrial environment, as being essentially transitory, as undergoing continual change. Godwin gives: Cheled; one of the seven earth; corresponding (with Tebhel) to Yesod and Malkuth; our own earth.

### [khahdal](/keys/ChDL) - חדל
> As a verb to cease. to desist, to come to an end. As a noun KDL, khedel, cessation, this world; the place of rest. the abode of dead, a yawning gulf. As an adjective KDL, forebearing, lacking; ceasing, transient. Translated "frail" in [Psalm 39:4](http://biblehub.com/psalms/39-4.htm). In the Jewish translation of the Massoretic text, KDL is translated "short-lived." Compare this with the meaning of חנט (#[67](67)). MH-ChDL, "how short-lived" is the actual wording in the Hebrew text. see [45](45).

## Latin/Greek

### [Chaos](/latin?word=chaos) (Lt)
> "a yawning gulf." In Latin it is associated with the idea of boundless space and darkness. It designates the confused, formless, primitive mass out of which the universe was made. It is the Great Abyss of Darkness; and because the idea of that darkness is related to Binah, the third Sephirah is colored black in our symbolic scale. Note that chaos is the primitive state of natura. see [67](67).

> "The endless eternity and unsearchable Primum Mobile [#130] are represented by the trinity, which produces the Fiat (#34) and produces nature in the mode of Prima Materia [#112], otherwise chaos." [A.E. Waite: Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross, p. XXII].

### [liber](/latin?word=liber) (Lt)
> a book, a rescript, a decree. All these ideas refer to natura, which is the "one, only book" mentioned by Rosicrucians. In Tarot, the Book of Nature is the scroll of the High Priestess.

### [luna](/latin?word=luna) (Lt)
> the moon, silver in alchemy. Connected with the High Priestess, who is the dark and terrible mother, Hekate, Goddess of the underworld, which is the abode of the dead. The world is ChDL, khedel. In later alchemical and heraldic use, Luna denotes the metal silver. see [160](160), [146](146), [40](40).

### [canis](/latin?word=canis) (Lt)
> dog. Recall the dog in Key 18, the Moon. In the Book of Lambspring it says: *"Alexander writes from Persia that a wolf and a dog are in the field, which, as the sages say, are descended from the same stock, but the wolf comes from the east, and dog from the west. They are full of jealousy, fury, rage, and madness: One kills the other, and from them come a great poison. But when they are restored to life, they are clearly shown to be the great and precious medicine, the most glorious remedy upon the earth, which refreshes and restores the sages, who render thanks to god, and do praise him."* [Hermetic Museum I, p. 284]. see [56](56), [79](79) (Latin) Case: Canis = [42](42) = Luna.

### [Ogdoad](/latin?word=ogdoad) (Lt)
> 8 pointed star; symbol of the *"creative Logos whose name is Alpha and Omega-the radiations of which result in the continuous flow and unbroken circle of manifestation which is ever returning to its source."* [Atwood: A Suggestive Inquiry into Alchemy, p. 2]