## 43 - Forty-Three
> (prime)

### [akabod, Ichabod](/keys/AI-KBVD) - אי־כבוד
> "Where is the..." The son of the priest Phineas, born on the occasion of the capture of the ark. [1 Samuel 4:21](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/4-21.htm): *"And she named the child Ichabod, saying, the glory is departed form Israel, because the ark of God was taken, and because of her father in law and her husband."*

### [gayil](/keys/GIL) - גיל
> to rejoice, delight, to mourn. also tongue of a bell.

### [gahm](/keys/GM) - גם
> also, even, too, moreover, yes. The affirmative that the Great glory is within us always. see [603](603). Also means together, as in [Psalm 133:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/133-1.htm): *"how good and pleasant it is when brothers live together in unity."* see [65](65).

> Fabre D'Olivet writes: *"גם. Every idea of accumulation, agglomeration, complement, height; expressed in an abstract sense by the relations also, same, again. The Arabic [word] develops as does the Hebraic root, all ideas of abundance and accumulation. As verb, it is the action of abounding, multiplying; as noun, and in a restrictive sense, [it] expresses a precious stone, in Latin gemma."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 315]

### [yedidiah](/keys/IDIDIH) - ידידיה
> "One beloved by God". The name given to Solomon at this birth by the prophet Nathan. [2 Samuel 12:25](http://biblehub.com/2_samuel/12-25.htm): *"And because the Lord loved him, he sent word through Nathan the prophet to make him Jedidiah."*

### [Lehach](/keys/LHCh) - להח
> 34th name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 4th quinance (10°-20°) of Capricorn. see [58](58), [1525](1525).

### [gahdol](/keys/GDVL) - גדול
> larger, great. Root of גדולה, [Gedulah](/keys/GDVLH), greatness, majesty. see [48](48), [72](72).

### [Luz](/keys/LVZ) - לוז
> Hazel, almond. Alternative wood used for making the magical wand. Name of the place where Jacob is said to have had the dream of angels ascending and descending a ladder. Also a verb whose primitive meaning is "to turn away, to deviate." Latter ideas include forwardness and perversity, linking it to the path of Gimel--the involution or descent of energy from Kether, the cause of all limitations and "evils." see [404](404).

> [Genesis 28:19](http://biblehub.com/genesis/28-19.htm): *"And he called the name of that place Bethel: but the name of that city was called Luz at the first."*

### [luz](/keys/LVZ) - לוז
> Little Bone. A. E. Waite: *"Each man who is born into the world is provided with an imperishable bone in his present physical body, and it is from or on this that his organization will be built up anew at the time of the resurrection--it is like the rib taken from the side of Adam. The bone in question will be to the risen body that which the leaven is to the dough".* [3 Books of Occult Philosophy Ch: 20 Page 68]

### [gadval](/keys/GDVL) - גדול
> great--in mass or size (weighty, important); in vehemence (violent); in dignity (authority); in eminence (distinguished). Suggests intense power and value. Symbolically represents the potency ascribed to the magic rod.

### [Challah](/keys/ChLH) - חלה
> Represents the Shekinah, the "Cohabitating Glory" or divine agency through which God rules the World. The intermediary power between the Primal Will [Kether] and its manifestations. Represented by the Uniting Intelligence of the 13 Path. see [49](49), [263](263), [93](93). see also K.D.L.C.K. page 346.

### [kellaw](/keys/ChLH) - חלה
> to make sick, to mollify, appease. With different vowel points: Cake. [Numbers 15:20](http://biblehub.com/numbers/15-20.htm): *"Ye shall offer of a cake of the first of your bough for a heaven offering..."*

> Hallah, name of a tractate of the Talmud.

### [laibyah](/keys/LBIA) - לביא
> Lion, Lioness. [Job 4:11](http://biblehub.com/job/4-11.htm): *"The old lion perisheth for lack of prey, and the stout lion s whelp are scattered abroad."* [see K.D.L.C.K. p. 151] see [340](340), [211](211), [310](310).

### [mag](/keys/MG) - מג
> Magus; the Rosicrucian grade corresponding to Chokmah, sphere of the Zodiac. Part of the Supernal Triad of master of the inner school, our spiritual Hierarchy. Also: Persian priest, chief of the Magi. [Jeremiah 39:3](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/39-3.htm): *"Then all the officials of the King of Babylon took seats in the middle gate: Nergal-Sharezer of Samgar, Nebo-Sareskim a chief officer, Nergal-Sharezer a chief priest [i.e. Magus] and all the other officials of the King of Babylon."*

> Fabre D'Olivet writes: *"מג. Root not used in Hebrew. The Arabic [word] expresses the idea of a thing which is sour, acrid, bitter, sharp; which irritates, troubles, torments. In a restrictive sense the verb signifies to be repugnant."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 386]

## Latin/Greek:

### [Filii](/latin?word=Filii) (Lt)
> of the son. The "son" is בן, [Ben](/keys/BN), or [Tiphareth](/keys/ThPARTh). see [52](52).

### [qui](/latin?word=qui)
> who. The son, who is majestic is a reflection of its source הוא, [Hu](/keys/HVA) (also pronounce "who") in Kether. Part of a Rosicrucian saying. see [518](518) Latin.

### [amant](/latin?word=amant)
lover. The hero of *Roman de la Rose* by Jean de Meung.

### See Also:

- [7](7)
