## 44 - Forty-Four
> (4x11)

> > *"The sum of the 9 sides, 14 corners and 21 boundary lines of the vault of the adepts. Combined value of Mercury ([37](37)) and sulphur ([7](7)).*

> > *"Perimeter of a circle with a diameter of [14](14). Circumference of the Creative World, Briah.*

> > *"44 is the number of the holy metals or pentacles (pantacles) of the planets, which are as follows: [7](7) each to Saturn, Jupiter, Mars and Sun ([28](28) in all), five each to Venus and Mercury ([10](10) in all) and [6](6) to Luna. Note that this distribution represents 44 as being composed of the addition of the three triangular numbers [28](28), [10](10), and [6](6), or the extension of [7](7), [4](4), and [3](3). Here we have a hint because the basic digits [3](3), [4](4), and [7](7) from which these number are derived multiply together to make 84, and add together to make [14](14), and which the great pyramid is reckoned as having a height of 14, its sloping edges have combined length of [84](84) (approximately, in whole numbers).*

> > *"As 4 times 11, refers mystically to the time, times and half a time mentioned in the apocalypse. By reference to the notes of the number 11, it will be seen that 11 years are the circumference of a diameter of 42 months. Therefore in this connection, 44 would represent 4 times 11 Egyptian years, or 4 times 3960 days = 15,840 days = 528 months of 30 days each."*

> [Paul Case: Notes on Numbers]

---

### [eliab](/keys/ALIAB) - 
> "God of his Father."

---

### [ab + am](/keys/AB.AM) - 
> Father + Mother. "is the number(44) resulting from the addition of the numbers of the Hebrew words AB = 3 and AM = 41, Father and Mother, referring to Chokmah and Binah. It therefore represents the union of Wisdom and Understanding." [Paul Case: Notes on Numbers]

---

### [dam](/keys/DM) - 
> blood. Formed from the word Adam [ADM]. The physical organism of Man is condensed from Blood. see 5, 55, 45. The Location of the temple of the Wise men was at Dam-Car, in Arabia. Dam-Car means: Blood of the Lamb. It is the initiate's own body. The practices of initiation modify blood chemistry. Arabia (sterility) refers to the necessary celibacy which gives the strength for initiation. see 470, 68.

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: "DM. The roots which, by means of any sign whatever, arise from the roots AB or AM, symbols of active or passive principles, are all very difficult to determine and to grasp, on account of the extent of meaning which they present, and the contrary ideas which they produce. These particularly demand close attention. It is, at first glance, universalized sympathy; that is to say, a homogeneous thing formed by affinity of similar parts, and holding to the universal organization of being.

> DM is a broader sense, it is that which is identical; in a more restricted sense, it is blood, assimilative bond between soul and body, according to the profound though of Moses... It is that which assimilates, which becomes homogeneous; mingles with another thing: thence the general idea of that which is no longer distinguishable, which ceases to be different; that which renounces its seity, its individuality, is identified with the whole, is calm, quiet, silent, asleep.

> That Arabic [word] has developed in the ancient language the same general idea; but in the modern idiom this root has received acceptations somewhat different. [The Arabic word] expresses in general a glutinous, sticky fluid. In particular, as noun, it is blood; as verb; it is the action of covering with a glutinous glaze. From the later meaning results, in the analogue [word], that of contaminating, calumniating, covering with blame." [Hebrew Tongue Restored p. 323-324]

> Sendovigius asserts: "Thou hast in thy body the anatomy of the whole world, and all thy members answer to some celestials; let, therefore, the searcher of the sacred science know that the soul in man, the lesser world or microcosm, substituting the place of its center, is the king, and is placed in the vital spirit in the purest blood [DM]. That governs the mind, and the mind the body..." [New Light of Alchemy, p. 42] Also: Blood, the first of the 10 plagues of Egypt. Exodus 7:19: "the Lord said to Moses, "Tell Aaron," take your staff and stretch out your hand over the waters of Egypt-over the streams and canals, over the ponds and the reservoirs," and they will turn to blood. Blood will be everywhere in Egypt, even in the wooden buckets and stone jars."

---

### [Teleh](/keys/ThLH) - 
> Aries. a young ram. Aries is a fire-sign. Refers to Christos, Brother C.R. and the brain is under the rulership of Aries, the means whereby man controls the forces of flame used in magic. The sign Aries, as the beginning of the zodiac, is a symbol of the commencement of the creative activities in BRIAH which result ultimately in the Life-Power's self-expression in the names and forms of the physical world. The Ram and the Lamb are one, and correspond to the Hindu deity Angi, Lord of Flame (LHT).

> It is from blood that the substance used in the Great Work is derived-identical with the Lunar (white) and solar (red) currents of prana "congealed" or brought into a solid state by gradual loss of Heat.

---

### [khool](/keys/ChVL) - 
> sand. The root of the noun is a verb spelled with the same letters meaning, "to turn round, to twist, to whirl." [Job 29:18]. The birth of the alchemical 1st matter is in the sand (mineral kingdom). Alchemist call this their Phoenix-a spiral twisting motion directly connected with sound and thought. Also: to dance, to twist, writhe. To turn in a circle. Note the letter sequence: fence, nail, ox-goad. Suggesting movement within an enclosure, round a pivot (Vav, like the point in the center of a circle), incited by the law of action and re-action of which the letter Lamed and Key 11 symbolizes. As a masculine noun ChVL means sand, on account of the whirling pillars of sand familiar to all desert dwellers, which are the source of tales about Genies. Khole, is also the Hebrew name of the Legend of the Phoenix. In Job 29:18: "and I shall multiply my days as the sand." The Jewish translation is: "and I shall multiply by days as the Phoenix." [VKChVL]: "And like the Phoenix or sand," is the literal translation. Sands refers to the mineral Kingdom-first substance in the Pythagorean triangle. ChVL is also the root of the name ChVILH (#58), "The land of Havilah where there is Gold." [Genesis 2:11] see 127, 395. Also: to wait, hope, to fall upon, happen; to be firm, strong.

---

### [lahat](/keys/LHT) - 
> magic; flame, The flame of light. The art of Life. In relation to BRIAH, Teleh and [LHT] are technical mysteryterms, referring to the same idea that is expressed in the New Testament mention of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world. Aries represent the beginning of creative activities in Briah which result in physical names and forms. The Ram and the Lamb are one and correspond to the Hindu Agni, Lord of Flame (LHTh). see 7, 14, 22, 28, 66, 88. also: magic arts, enchantments; glittering blade, glitter, flashing. as a verb LHTh: to flame, consume, to practice magic; to hide, to cover.

ha-khereb. the sword. see [259](259).

???[ARVCh]. a path, a narrow way,

---

### [agliy](/keys/AGLI) - 
> drops (of fluid). A clear reference to blood, also to the heavenly influence which fall in "drops" as in Key 16, 18, 19. see 83.

---

### [agam](/keys/AGM) - 
> to gather together; a pool, a pond, muddy water; marsh; uncleared ground containing roots of trees, reedland; sorrow. As an adjective, sad, depressed, despondent, sorrow, "the slough of despond." The pilgrim's progress is an example of the same imagery.

---

### [dalee](/keys/DLI) - 
> a vessel for drawing water, Aquarius. Refers to the Aquarian age, symbolized by the head of a man, which will perfect the human arts, science and philosophy. In the New Testament, the bucket is a significant symbol, recorded in Mark 14:13 and Luke 22:10. The Greek word one of the many indications as to the real meaning behind the surface narrative. see 296.

> Regarding the book Ancient Faiths by Inman, Paul case comments on his translation "to emit semen": DLI = Aquarius, the waterbearer." The two pitchers, DLIV = 50 = N = Scorpio and the two who bear the water [MI] should be easily understood by readers of the book. Aquarius is the distinctive sign of man, and manhood = virilitas = KCh (strength, power, #28)" [Note, p. 430] Mark 14:13 "And he sends two of this disciples, and says to them, go into the city, and a man carrying a pitcher of water will meet you; follow him. "

---

### [goali](/keys/GALI) - 
> "my redeemer." [Job 19:25] It is important for the understanding of the passage cited to know that the fundamental meaning of GAL, Goale, redeemer, is a blood relative, or next of Kin. Goale is also spelled GVAL. see 50

---

### [golah](/keys/GVLH) - 
> captivity, exile, banishment; those in exile. Refers to the limitations which are the logical necessities of creation.

---

### [belibbi](/keys/BLBI) - 
> "in my heart." Psalm 119:11. All these words are directly related to the watery nature of Briah.

---

### [Yod-Heh-Vav-Heh](/keys/IVD HA VV HA) - 
> Special spelling of Tetragrammaton, given by Rosenroth, without attribution, to one of the 4 Qabalistic worlds (Briah or Assiah?) in [K.D.L.C.K p. 251]

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### Vir (Lt)
> a man, a husband. Same as the Hebrew ISh [AISh]. see 311.

---

### See Also:

- [8](8)
- Σ44 = [990](990)