## 45 - Forty-Five
> 9x5. Σ9 = 45. Length of each line of a Hexagram. *[The Gematria Notebooks of Paul Foster Case]*

45 is the length of the paths Daleth, Heh and Zain when Aleph = 26.

---

### [Adam](/keys/ADM) - אדם
> generic humanity, a proper name. It particularly refers to man the microcosm. ([More >>](adam))

---

### [Edom](/keys/ADM) - אדם
> Edom is the Kingdom of unbalanced forces.

---

### [odem](/keys/ADM) - אדם
> "red"; ruby, carnelian or hematite. The first stone of the breast plate of the High Priest, in [Exodus 28:17](http://biblehub.com/exodus/28-7.htm): *"Then mount four rows of precious stones on it. In the first row there shall be a ruby [hematite], a topaz [emerald] and an emerald [marble]."* see [98](98)

---

### [omad](/keys/AMD) - אמד
> to appraise, supposition, to estimate, value; conjecture, assessment. Man is above all else, a calculator, a reckoner, an estimator. These meaning all relate to the power whereby man measures and defines.

---

### [Hu abika](/keys/HVA.ABIK) - הוא אביך
> "He (God) thy Father." [Deut 32:6](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/32-6.htm). הוא [Hu](/keys/HVA), He, is a special title of KETHER.

---

### [hem](/keys/HM) - הם
> abundance, wealth. as a pronoun (name): they, these, who; and various other meanings, all representing what surrounds the EGO, and therefore to be included in what is sometimes called "non ego." From a root meaning: universal life, vital power of the universe.

---

### [Zazel](/keys/ZZAL) - זזאל
> The Spirit of Saturn. Sometimes (Godwin's) spelt זאזל, according to the book Western Mandalas [and Paul Case], this is wrong.

---

### [Agiel](/keys/AGIAL) - אגיאל
> Intelligence of Saturn. Binah is the sphere of Saturn, the limiting or finitizing power, which establishes definite limits.

---

### [meode](/keys/MAD) - מאד
> as a verb: strength, might; exceeding, excessively. as a masculine noun: strength, might, vehemence. Root of the rabbinical word for Mars, מאדים, [Madim](/keys/MADIM).

---

### [mah](/keys/MH) - מה
> What? which; why? Used as an interrogative pronoun, as an adjective and an adverb. Used to mark the indefinite-whatever, that which. The prologue to the Zohar contains many references to this word. Rabbi Simeon says: "The heavens and their Hosts were created through the medium of מה, Mah." It refers particularly to the Lesser Countenance.

> Man is associated with the secret nature of Formation. Its substance is Man (Adam). However unknown this essential formative power may appear to be. The object of Quest in occult science is the true nature of Man and the subject of alchemical operations in none other than Adam. see [73](73).

---

### [zibul](/keys/ZBVL) - זבול
> Sacrifice to idols. see [270](270).

> Also: [zebol](/keys/ZBVL). lofty; heaven of Tiphareth.

---

### [gavolah](/keys/GAVLH) - גאולה
> redemption, liberation.

---

### [chebelah](/keys/ChBLH) - חבלה
> She who ruins.

---

### [zakhal](/keys/ZChL) - זחל
> to creep, to crawl, to flow, to run; to fear, be afraid, to be timid [Deut 32:24](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/32-6.htm). serpent, [zauchali auphar](/keys/ZChLI.OPR), "serpents of the dust."

---

### [Yad-Heh-Vav-Heh](/keys/ID.HH.VH.HH) - יד הה וה הה
> The special spelling of יהוה in Yetzirah. See [72](72) for special spelling in Atziluth.

---

### [Yelah](/keys/ILH) - ילה
> 44th name of Shemhamphorash, associated with the 2nd quinance of Pisces.

---

### [Holid](/keys/HVLD) - הולד
> begat.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Deus](/latin?word=Deus) (Lt)
> God. It is written "Demon est Deus inversus" or the Devil is the reverse of God. see [314](314) Latin.

---

### [Homo](/latin?word=Homo) (Lt)
> Man. It is also said Demon est Homo inversus - "The Devil is Man upside Down." see [510](510). Therefore God and Man are essentially one. see [1035](1035).

---

### [Mens](/latin?word=Mens) (Lt)
> Mind. "...above the rational spirit is the mens or concealed intilligence, commonly call intellectus illustratvs [enlightened perception], and of Moses the breath of Life. This is that Spirit which God himself breathed into man, and by which man is united again to God." [Thomas Vaughan-Works-anthroposophia Theomagica, p.28] see [116](116), [145](145) (Lt.); [214](214), [18](18), [23](23).

---

### [demon](/latin?word=demon) (Lt)
> devil, demon; part of a Latin phrase. see [244](244).

---

### [Ipse](/latin?word=Ipse) (Lt)
> This, this very person, Self. the superlative, Ipsissimis, is used as a title for the Rosicrucian grade which correspond to Kether. Ipse is the Latin pronoun designating the Ego.

---

### [auri](/latin?word=auri) (Lt)
> golden. In Hindu books the SELF, or Ipse, is sometimes call "The golden person in the heart." Tiphareth corresponds to the Heart. As the sphere of the Sun, Tiphareth is related to Gold.

---

### [Nox](/latin?word=Nox) (Lt)
> night, gloom, darkness, death; a goddess, the darkness of innorance; figuratively, the subconscious plane, which is occult or hiddden form the intellect. see [146](146). "All things were brought forth out of night." [Vaughan]

---

### [valle](/latin?word=valle) (Lt)
> the ablative case of valles, a valley, vale. Used in Rosicrucianism and alchemy to designate the field of the Great Work. Compare this with various details of Tarot symbolism which show the Great Work as being carried on, and especially as beginning, at the level of self-conscious awareness. see [62](62) (Latin)

---

### [vere](/latin?word=vere) (Lt)
> truly, really, in fact, properly, rightly. All implying a standard of measurement, to which whatever is indicated by Vere conforms.

---

### See Also:

- [9](9)
- Σ[9](9) = 45