## 46 - Forty-Six
> ([2](2)x[23](23)). Σ46 = [1081](1081) (Tiphareth).

---

### [Elijah](/keys/ALIH) - אליה
> a name of God ("Jehovah is God") Elijah (Hebrew Lexicon).

Alternate spelling. Also spelled [Eliyahu](/ALIHV) see [52](52).

---

### [Abigel](/keys/ABIGL) - אביגל
> Abigail, "Father of Joy, Source of Joy" [1 Samuel 25:13](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/25-13.htm): *"Now the name of the man was Nabal; and the name of his wife Abigail: And she was a woman of understanding, and of a beautiful countenance."* see [82](82), [56](56) (variant spelling). Abigail was later David's wife. see [14](14)

---

### [Levi](/keys/LVI) - לוי
> Third son of Jacob and Leah; Lavie, of the tribe of Levi [Genesis 35:23](http://biblehub.com/genesis/35-23.htm): *"the sons of Leah: Reuban, Jacob's firstborn, and Simeon and Levi..."* As the priestly tribe, early in the history of Israel, the Levites became custodians of the sanctuary and its furniture.

---

### [ayalah](/keys/AILH) - אילה
> doe, hind. In [Genesis 49:21](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-21.htm): *"Naphtali is a doe set free that bears beautiful fawns."* (New International) *"Naphtali is a hind let loose: he giveth goodly words."* (King James). [Naphtali](/keys/NPThLI) (נפתלי) is attributed to Virgo and alchemical distillation. see [570](570).

---

### [Yod IHVH](/keys/IVD.IHVH) - יוד יהוה
> hand of Jehovah. see [20](20), [26](26).

---

### [chobel](/keys/ChVBL) - חובל
> sailor. The microcosm, as a vehicle with the great sea. Mathers in [?S.C.?, p. 7] gives: "A ruiner."

---

### [Tual](/keys/TVAL) - טואל
> In ceremonial magic, one of the Angels of the 12 signs of the zodiac, ruling Taurus, the Bull, and the 2nd astrological house.

---

### [Hahahel](/keys/HHHAL) - הההאל
> "God in three persons." 41st Shemhamphorash. 201°-205°. Chontaré. April 29, July 10, September 20, December 1. [rest of text unreadable] According to Godwin, the angle of the 5th quinance (21°-25°) of Aquarius; Angel by day of the 7 of Swords. This represents the influence of Netzach, sphere of Venus, in Yetzirah, the world of mental formation.

---

### [ammah](/keys/AMH) - אמה
> handmaid. female slave, tribe, race, people. mother (as the Great Mother, Binah), mother city, Metropolis, measure, or cubit, post, foundation, middle finger, virile member, penis, canal, dike, sewer.

---

### [habdalah](/keys/HBDLH) - הבדלה
> A dividing sundering or separating, separation, division. Power of Zain, the sword, connecting Binah to Tiphareth. From a root בדל, see [36](36).

---

### [beydel](/keys/BDIL) - בדיל
> Tin, metal of Jupiter. A copper alloy of tin. Aramaic meaning: "on account of, for the sake of." D.D. Bryant writes in his alchemical work on the philosopher's stone: *"The sublimation of mercury is completed by 2 processes, viz, by removing things superfluous from it, and by introducing things which are wanting, all of which is accomplished by Sol, the Beauty that transforms the beast."* [The Art of Alchemy VIII, 8]

> The Aesch Mezareph [IV pp. 27-28] says: *"Bedil, Tin; in natural science, this metal is not greatly used; for as it is derived by separation, so its matter remains separate from the universal medicine. Amongst the planets [Zedek](/keys/TzDQ) {צדק = [194](194) = Jupiter} is attributed to it; a white wandering planet, to which the gentiles applied an idolatrous name, mention where of is forbidden, see [Exodus 22:12](http://biblehub.com/exodus/22-12.htm) ("and if it be stolen from him, he shall make restitution to the owner thereof"), and a greater extirpation is promised, [Hosea 2:17](http://biblehub.com/hosea/2-17.htm) ("For I will take away the names of Baalim out of her mouth, and they shall no more be remembered by their name") and [Zechariah 13:2](http://biblehub.com/zechariah/13-2.htm) ("And it shall come to pass in that day, says the Lord of Hosts, that I will cut off the names of the idols out of the Land, and they shall no more be remembered: And also I will cause the prophets and the unclean spirit to pass out of the land.") Amongst the beast, no allegory is better applied to this metal than that because of its crackling, it should be called 'Chazir Mijaar,' a boar out the wood, [Psalm 80:14](http://biblehub.com/psalms/80-14.htm), whose number is [545](545) (which is not only made [5](5) times from [109](109), but in its lesser number shows a quinary, as twice taken is [10](10), the lesser number of the word Bedil, by the two figures of [46](46) being added together. But five times ten shows the [fifty](50) gates of [Binah](/keys/BINH), and the first letter of the Sephirah [Netzach](/keys/NTzCh), which is the Sephirotic class to which this metal is referred). In particular transformation, its sulphurous nature alone both not profit, but with other sulphurs, especially those of the red metals, it does reduce thick waters, dully terrificated into Gold; so also into Silver, it its nature by Tin. But its viscous and water nature may be meliorated into Gold, if it be only pulverized with the calx of Gold through all the degrees of fire, for ten days, and by degrees thrown upon flowing Gold, in the form of the little masses, which also I am taught is to be done with Silver. But no man is wise unless his master is experience."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [flos](/latin?word=flos) (Lt)
> flower; suggesting the "rose" symbolism and relates particularly to the microcosm. see [683](683), [36](36), [252](252), [315](315), [154](154), [224](224), [314](314), [29](29). [It has been linked with the Great magical Agent, by Eliphas Levi, who terms it also "Azoth, ether, magnetic fluid, soul of the earth, Lucifer, etc.." One of the faces of the philosophical stone bears its name, along with Adam, Eve, and Azoth].

---

### [Jove or Iove](/latin?word=Iove) (Lt)
> Jove; the Latin Jupiter, the sky-god, connected with beneficence. King and Father of the Gods. Same as the Greek Zeus.

---

### [Omnia](/latin?word=Omnia) (Lt)
> All, everything; symbolizes the universe. (The radius which determines the size of a circle is [23](23) [חיה], [Chaiah](/keys/ChIH), the Life-force seated in Chokmah.) The "field" or "vineyard" of the universe is pervaded by Life, so that no portion of it may be regarded as a dead mechanism. see [506](506) Greek.

---

### [I.N.R.I.](/latin?word=I.N.R.I.) (Lt)
> Initials of inscription on the cross of Jesus crucification that Pilate wrote. It has many esoteric meanings. Blavatsky Quotes a Rosicrucian motto: *"[Igne Natura Renovatur Intergra](287)"* which the alchemist interpret as Nature renovated by fire, or matter by Spirit." see [270](270), [1223](1223).

---

### [Ordo](/latin?word=Ordo) (Lt)
> Order. Part of the motto: "A new order of the ages" on the Great Seal of the U.S. see [80](80), [94](94), [126](126), [220](220), [370](370) (Lt), [240](240).

---

### [Igneo](/latin?word=Igneo) (Lt)
> igneous, fiery; of fire. Relates to the "Triangle of Fire." see [134](134), [88](88) (Lt).

---

### English Gematria:

- [tell](/english?word=tell) *([Fama Intro p.14](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n14))*

---

### See Also:

- [10](10)
- [1](1)
