## 48 - Forty-Eight
> 3x2x2x2x2 or 3x16 or 12x4: The multiplication of the powers of the 4 elements by the 12 signs of the zodiac.

---

### [Kokab](/keys/KVKB) - כוכב
> a star or planet [Numbers 24:17](http://biblehub.com/numbers/24-17.htm). Specifically Mercury. Related to the 8th Sephirah, God, the sphere of Mercury, and to [Key 17](17). see [15](15), [453](453). כו = [26](26) = יהוה, Tetragrammaton and כב = [22](22) = number of letters of the Hebrew Alphabet. see [98](98), [343](343), [721](721).

> With respect of quicksilver or Mercury, the Aesch Mezareph says: *And so Kokab, a Star, is the Name of the Planet, under whose Government this Matter is, with the whole Word is [[49](49)]; which same is the Number of El Chai. But remember that all Quicksilver doth not conduce to this Work, because the sorts of it differ even as Flax from Hemp or Silk, and you would work on Hemp to no purpose, to make it receive the Tenuity and Splendour of fine Flax."* [[Aesch Mezareph (VII)](http://www.levity.com/alchemy/aesch7.html)]. *NOTE: [Kokab](/keys/KVKB) is 48, but add an א before the final ב and it becomes כוכאב, equaling [49](/keys/KVKAB)*

---

### [Gedulah](/keys/GDVLH) - גדולה
> greatness, majesty, magnificence, a name for Chesed ([72](72)). From a root GDL, Gadal, meaning: to twist, and therefore connected with the idea of spiral motion. see [37](37), [43](43), [440](440).

---

### [chayil](/keys/ChIL) - חיל
> army, rampart; wall.

---

### [cha'yil](/keys/CHIL) - חיל
> a women, force, power, strength, efficiency; wealth, vigor, health. The word is derived from a root, spelled the same way, meaning "to whirl, to twist." A reference to the spiral motion which is characteristic of the influence descending from Kether, where the whirlings begin, into all the paths of wisdom below the Crown.

---

### [Ham](/keys/ChM) - חם
> warmth, heat, fire, blackness. As a proper noun חם is the son of Noah [Genesis 5:32, 6:10](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=genesis+5%3A32%2C6%3A10&version=KJV;WLC) [Genesis 5:32](http://biblehub.com/genesis/5-32.htm), [Genesis 6:10](http://biblehub.com/genesis/6-10.htm). see [936](936), [993](993), [190](190).

> According to Fabre D'Olivet: *"חם. Ham... this name is on the whole, the opposite of that of Shem. The sign Cheth which constitutes it, recalls all ideas of effort, of obstacle, or fatigue of travail. The root which result from its union with the sign of exterior action, employed as collective, presents a bending, a dejection, a thing which inclines toward the lower parts: it is the heat which follows a sharp compression: it is the hidden fire of nature: it is the warmth which accompanies the rays of the sun; it is the dark color, the blackness, which results from their action; it is finally, in the broadest sense, the sun itself considered as the cause of heat and of torrefaction.*

> *When the name of Ham is presented alone and in an absolute sense, it can be taken in a good sense, since it expresses the effect of the sun upon inferior bodies; but if one only sees in it the opposite of Shem, it offers only sinister ideas. If Shem is the sublime, the superior, Ham is the abased, the inferior; so if the former is the radiant, the exalted, the infinite, the latter is the obscure, the bending, the limited, etc.* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 170-171]

---

### [Khem](/keys/ChM) - חם
> The Egyptians' own name for their country. Through Egyptians influence of the Greeks, the root of our words alchemy and chemistry.

---

### [Mach](/keys/MCh) - מח
> clapping, applause, fullness of the body; good humor.

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"Onomatopoeic root which depicts the noise that is made in clapping the hands: figuratively, action of applauding; state of being joyous, of having good appearance. מח the sign of exterior and passive action united to that of elementary labor, or to the root אח, symbol of all equality, constitutes a root to which are attached the ideas of abolition, desuetude; of ravage carried on by time, by the action of the elements, or by man."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 388](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/388)]

---

### [yuwbal](/keys/IVBL) - יובל
> stream, river; trumpet blast (from the sound coming from a stream). Jubal, the name of the son of Lamech. [Genesis 4:21](http://biblehub.com/genesis/4-21.htm): *"And his brother's name was Jubal: he was the father of all such as handle the harp and organ."*

---

### [jubile](/keys/IVBL) - יובל
> ram; ram's horn, inventor of musical instruments.

---

### [meahab](/keys/MAHB) - מאהב
from love.

---

### [mayawz](/keys/MAZ) - מאז
> "of old." [Proverbs 8:22](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/8-22.htm): *"The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his way before his works of old."* see [3](3), [12](12), [21](21), [30](30), [39](39), [57](57).

---

### [Vehuel](/keys/VHVAL) - והואל
> "Great and High God" The 49th Shemhamphorash, and those following to the 56th belong to the 7th order of angels, the principalities. [Psalm 145:3](http://biblehub.com/psalms/145-3.htm): *"Great is the Lord and most worthy of praise; his greatness no one can fathom."*

> One should recite the whole Psalm to overcome chagrin and when has a contrary spirit. Exacts one toward God, to bless and glorify, when one is touched with admiration. Rules great personages and all who elevate and distinguish themselves by their talents and virtues. Person born: sensible and generous soul: will be esteemed by all good people for virtues, good deeds, will distinguish himself in literature, jurisprudence and diplomacy. see [965](965), [1525](1525).

---

## Latin

---

### [arbor](/latin?word=arbor) (Lt)
> a tree. A word which recurs continually in Qabalistic, alchemical and Rosicrucian texts.

---

### [fons](/latin?word=fons) (Lt)
> fountain, spring, source, origin, cause. Literally, a pouring forth. Compare with the doctrine that the 4th Sephirah is the source of supply.

---

### [rota](/latin?word=rota) (Lt)
> a wheel. Used in the FAMA FRATERNITATIS to designate one of the most valuable Rosicrucian "books." Origin of the artificial noun, TAROT. [Key 10](10) represents the whirling force descending from Chesed.

---

### [Tora](/latin?word=Tora) (Lt)
> the Torah or the law; the scroll held by the High Priestess in [Key 2](2). see [20](20).

---

### [orat](/latin?word=orat) (Lt)
> speaks. Part of the Latin phrase "The wheel of Tarot speaks the Law of Hathor." the speech is that of intuitive knowledge.

---

### [Ator](/latin?word=Ator) (Lt)
> Hathor; The egyptian cow-goddess, who symbolized mother nature.

---

### [Nihil](/latin?word=Nihil) (Lt)
> Nothing. A reference to the No-thing or Ain, the 1st veil of the absolute. see [61](61), [538](538), [560](560), [31](31).

---

### [Decus](/latin?word=Decus) (Lt)
> Ornament, splendor, glory, honor, dignity. Hod in Latin. Elohim Sabaoth. see [15](15).

---

### English Gematria:

- [own](/english?word=own) *([Fama Intro p.13](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13))*
- [now](/english?word=now) *([Fama Intro p.14](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n14))*
- [America](/english?word=America) *([Fama Intro p.14](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n14))*


---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
