## 50 - Fifty
> (2x5x5). The 50 "Gates of Understanding" attributed to Binah. 10 (Yod):Chokmah x 5 (Heh):Binah. Number of faces of the 5 platonic polyhedra and the number of their points of vertices.

---

### [Nun](/keys/N) - נ
> The powers of growth and transformation represented by [Nun](/keys/N) and [Key 13](13). see [470](470). *"The bent over form of the Nun, 'the bent over faithful one,' indicates a sense of poverty and need to receive. This bent over form is the most fundamental (simple) "vessel" form amongst the letters of the alef-beit. In the form of the letter Teth, we envision a vessel filled by (pregnat with) 'introverted' light, whereas Nun is a vessel alone."* [The Alef- Beit, Rabbi Ginsburgh]

> *"If you, my son, wish to prepare this precious stone, you need not put yourself to any great expense.. you must diligently observe what I do, and remember the worlds of Aristole (Meteror 3 and 4) who says: "Study Nature, and careful peruse the book concerning generation and corruption."* [Hermetic Museum I, p. 131]

> [Nun](/keys/N). Meaning fish. Alchemists *"Would have known, also, that the meaning of the noun Nun, taken as a proper name, is 'perpetuity, eternity, or everlastingness'. And they would have known that the name 'Jesus' is merely a variant of Joshua, the successor of Moses, whose father was name Nun. The everlastingness... was unquestionably associated by the ancient Hebrews with ... procreative power... and it is an open secret that the mystery veiled by the letter of both Testaments.. is a mystery summed up in these words: generation and regeneration... Nun stands for the zodiacal sign Scorpio, which governs generation because it rules the reproductive function.. Scorpio, and is entitled 'death' because of the connection between Scorpio and the 8th house of the zodiac, termed 'the house of death'. Again, the 8th house is also the 'house of inheritance', and in all its meanings 'inheritance' signifies something transmitted by parents to offspring, so that it has a direct correspondence with the verbal meaning of Nun, 'to sprout'... That this wisdom is related to inheritance is not due to its being passed on from mouth to ear only, but also to the fact that is central mystery is a mystery of sex."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p. 44]

> see [1219](1219), [407](407) (Greek), [8](8). See also the parable of the loaves and fishes in the Bible [Matthew 14:17](http://biblehub.com/matthew/14-17.htm), [15:34](http://biblehub.com/matthew/15-34.htm) and note, [581](581).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"This character as consonant, belongs to the nasal sound; as symbolic image it represents the son of man, every produced and particular being. As grammatical sign, it is that of individual and produced existence. When it is placed at the end of words it becomes the argumentative sign final Nun, and gives to the being every extension of which it is individually susceptible. The hebraist grammarians in placing this character among the heemanthes, had certainly observed that it expressed, at the beginning of words, passive action, folded within itself, and when it appears at the end, unfoldment and augmentation..."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.395]

---

### [kole](/keys/KL) - כל
> all, whole, every. As the fish is hidden in the waters of the sea, so is the ALL shut up within the semblance of the many.

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"כל this root expresses all ideas of apprehension, shock, capacity, relative assimilation, consummation, totalization, achievement, perfection. The Arabic [word] develops in general, the same ideas of complement, totalization, as the Hebrew; but leaving its source, it inclines rather toward the totalization of evil than toward that of good; so that in the Arabic idiom [Arabic word], it taken figuratively, for excess of fatigue, height of misfortune, extreme poverty, etc. The root being reinforced by the guttural aspiration, offer in [Arabic word], a meaning absolutely contrary to the primitive sense of accumulation, and designates the state of that which diminishes which is lessened.*

> *"כל. That which is integral, entire, absolute, perfect, total, universal: that which consumes, concludes, finishes, totalizes a thing; that which renders it complete, perfect, accomplished; which comprises, contains it, in determining its accomplishment; the universality of things; their assimilation, aggeration, perfection; the desire of possessing, possession; a prison: the consumpion of foods, their assimilation with the substance of the body, etc.*

> *"כל. action of totalizing, accomplishing comprising, universalizing, consummating, etc."* [Hebrew Tongue Restored pp. 372-373]

---

### [Kaph/Lamed](/keys/K.L) - כ ל
> Jupiter in Libra.

---

### [adamah](/keys/ADMH) - אדמה
> red earth, soil, ground, land, territory. Corresponds to Terra Adamica (#86). In [Genesis 2:7](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-7.htm), יהוה אלהים (The complete divine name of Binah) formed the essence of the man, את האדם, #[451](451), from the dust עפר, [Aphar](/keys/OPR) ([350](350)), of the ground, אדמה, [Adamah](/keys/ADMH). Adamah is the earth of Chesed, one of the 7 earths in the diagram of the 4 seas. see [291](291), [14](14), [365](365), [105](105), [432](432), [337](337)

---

### [ha-adam](/keys/H-ADM) - ה אדם
> Metathesis of אדמה [adamah](/keys/ADMH). Generic humanity. The Adam. Translated sometimes in Genesis 2 as "The Man" and sometimes by the proper noun Adam. What is indicated is that the Man and the "Ground " are identical in essence. [Genesis 2:25](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-25.htm). see [610](610).

---

### [yahm](/keys/IM) - ים
> the sea; ocean; lake; large basin, reservoir, large river, west, western quarter. One of the many titles of Binah when the Mother is considered to be the great reservoir of substance from which forms are specialized. The "sea" is the radiant darkness of limitless light, the ocean of root-matter (Sanskrit: Mulaprakriti). The Mother (Binah) is the sea wherein swims the fish (Nun), and the fish and the sea are one. The fish and the son are also one. see [52](52).[Book of Tokens]

---

### [ha-Zazel](/keys/H-ZZAL) - ה זזאל
> The spirit of Saturn.

---

### [ha-hem](/keys/H-HM) - ה הם
> the abundance.

---

### [haman](/keys/HMH) - המה
> To ferment.

---

### [dag gedul](/keys/DG.GDVL) - דג גדול
> "great fish". [Jonah 1:17](http://biblehub.com/jonah/1:17.htm). When the great fish (Scorpio) swallowed the prophet Jonah (Dove, #[71](71)). the forces of Mars and Venus are conjoined (see [121](121)). Note also that [Ninevah](/keys/NINVH), the capital of Assyria, where Jonah was sent, is spelled נינוה, so that it combines the letters נון, [Nun](/keys/NVN), and יה, [Jah](/keys/IH). [Book of Tokens, p.131]

---

### [khobli](/keys/ChBLI) - חבלי
> pains and sorrows, throes of birth; suffering, damage, injury. For which the great fish is an emblem. All pain and sorrows are the portals through which man passes to the heart of the Great Mother. see ChBL, [40](40). [Book of Tokens]

---

### [ahtam](/keys/ATM) - אטם
> to close, to contract, to shut up. Indicates the limiting activity of the specializing process. see [86](86), [158](158), [4](4), [14](14), [41](41), [72](72), [104](104).

---

### [le-khah](/keys/LK) - לך
> to thee. "To thee, O Israel, is the opening and shutting of the Gates." [Book of Tokens]

---

### [mi](/keys/MI) - מי
> what? which? see [64](64). After many questions the realization of one s immorality is attained. Also where? and how? Refers to the Gates of Understanding and to the square of the Pythagorean triangle (see 236). Who?; whoever, someone, anyone. In the prologue to the Zohar, מי is discussed in relation to the initial process of creation and is linked to the no-thing. "מי... is the living water, transmitting life." see [85](85).

---

### [may](/keys/MI) - מי
> water. Singular form of the word usually rendered [Mem](/keys/MIM) [מים] occurs only as a component of proper names in the Bible. see [64](64). Used also as a euphemism for semen virile, the actual substance which is secreted by organs מיםunder the rulership of Scorpio.

---

### [Izhebel, Jezebel](/keys/AIZBL) - איזבל
> "chaste". [1 Kings 16:31](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/16-31.htm). Considered to mean "without cohabitation", implying virginity; Furst, on the other hand, considers that it is a contracted form of אבי זבל, [Abi-Zebel](/keys/ABI-ZBL) or "Father enthroned on high." Inman considers the name to mean "Baal is strong", Baal being the deity considered adulterous to Israel. [Ancient Faiths Embodied in Ancient Names]. To reach the "Father", one must practice virginity and practice reverence to the one true God of Israel. see [63](63) (Greek)

---

### [Ieiaiel](/keys/IIL) - ייל
> One of the 72 angels bearing the name of God. 58th Shemhamphorash. see [81](81).

---

### [Ieliel](/keys/ILI) - ילי
> 2nd Shemhamphorash. see [81](81).

---

### [Eladiah, Aladiah](/keys/ALDIH) - אלדיה
> 10th Shemhamphorash, angel of the 9 of Pentacles (Yesod of Assiah). "God the Propitious". Viroaso. March 29, June 9, August 19, October 31, January 11. 3:00-3:20. [Psalm 33:22](http://biblehub.com/psalms/33-22.htm): *"Let your mercy and loving-kindness, O Lord, be upon us in proportion to our waiting and hoping for You."*

> *"Good for those guilty of hidden crimes and fearing discovery. Governs rage and pestilence, cure of disease. Good health, successful in his undertakings."* [Burkle, The Seventy-Two Angels of the Shemhamphorash]

> see [965](965), [1525](1525).

---

## Latin:

---

### [semen](/latin?word=semen) (Lt)
> seed. This designates the reproductive element in the human organism. In alchemical writings, semen has the same figurative meaning as in Virgil, who employed this word to represent the 4 elements as the ground, origin, or cause of all physical forms. see [64](64) Lt.

---

### [Radix](/latin?word=Radix) (Lt)
> root. The part of the plant which draws in nourishment. The plant is the human organism; the nourishment is the Life-power. see [137](137) Lt.

---

### [Jesu](/latin?word=Jesu) (Lt)
> of Jesus. The seed of Jesus forms the root of the Christos. Part of a saying in the Rosicrucian Fama. "A seed planted in the breast of Jesus."" see [310](310), [95](95), [66](66), [99](99) (Latin), Part of a second saying, which includes the words "in Jesus we die", also in the Fama. see [683](683) (Latin).

---

### [regio](/latin?word=regio) (Lt)
> A direction, line; a boundary; country, territory, district, sphere, hence kingdom. see [496](496); [108](108) (Latin).