## 52 - Fifty-Two
> 52 (4x13) 52 weeks in a year. The path of Gimel is 52 units long (joining Kether to Tiphareth) and is the diameter of the Creative World of Briah and a symbol of what determines the limits of creative activity. *[The Gematria Notebooks of Paul Foster Case]*

---

### [Aima](/keys/AIMA) - אימא
> the Bright Supernal Mother, fertilized into productivity by the influx of the life-force from Chokmah through the path of Daleth. Title of Binah. The Empress, and the queens of the minor trump. see [67](67). The "Mysterious Power" of which Krishna declares: "My Maya is the great womb into which I cast the seed: from this is the birth of all creatures."

---

### [aba ve-ama](/keys/ABA.VAMA) - אבא ואמא
> Father and Mother. Qabalists designate the union of Wisdom (Aba) and Understanding (Ama).

---

### [Ben](/keys/BN) - בן
> "Son". Special designation of Tiphareth. Ben is the name of the "secret nature" of Yetzirah, the formative world, symbolized by the Magician's sword, and by the suit of swords. The sword is Zain, it is a symbol for the Binah, because [zain](/keys/ZIN) and [Binah](/keys/BINH) are numerically equivalent. The central Ego of the Human Race, is the Creature, the Begotten son, in perfect union with the Father. see [53](53). The essential Man (Adam) is "begotten not made." Humanity is of the same essence as Divinity. To experience oneself as a "Son of God" we must be receptive to the influence of the Christos. see [45](45), [80](80), [311](311), [1081](1081).

> *"The central Sephirah is Beauty, called בן, the Son. Note that this is 52, or a fourfold [13](13) [the number of unity and love]."* [Commentary 13th Communication 5/28/47]

> *"Likewise is 52 אימא, [Aima](/keys/AIMA), and , or יוד הה וו הה, [IHVH spelt in full](/keys/IVD.HH.VV.HH), with the names of the four letters, instead of the simple characters, and the key to IHVH is the [26](26) formed by adding 1, 6, 9, and 10 [the numbers of the Sephiroth of the Middle Pillar]."* - [13th Communication]

> *"Thus גן, [GN](/keys/GN), in the ROTA, is the garden of the magician; and what is the soil of the garden if be not identical with אבן, [ABN](/keys/ABN), the Stone? And thus do you see that the stone and the garden are really [AIMA](/keys/AIMA), the mother, and behold! אימא and בן are one in numeration. This hath been said long ago by the companions, for have they not written that in [Binah](/keys/BINH), בינה, which herself is אימא, are conjoined the letters בן, and the sum of these is 14, the ROTA number of the Father? Now, בן is, in the ROTA, 1 and 13, and the sum of these is 14, the ROTA number of the intelligence of Probation. For nothing can be known until it is tried, and in union, the Holy Guardian Angel effects that union. Here men fail to understand.*

> *"COMMENT: all this hangs on the recognition of the fact... that not the very least of any human being's personal activities is anything but the work of what the ROTA pictures as Key 14. Every circumstance of any man's life is a particular dealing of God with his soul... The recognition that the Actor is always superpersonal. For humanity of earth, the Actor is בן... so it is the personal you that watches, yet what of reality has that, apart from בן?"* [Qabalistic Text 17th Communication 6/12/47] see 53, 124.

Son. See also [Adam](/keys/ADM), [Ish](/keys/ASh), [Melek](/keys/MLK), [Tiphareth](/keys/ThPARTh).

---

### [caleb](/keys/KLB) - כלב
> Dog. Proper name of Caleb, companion of Joshua. Stands for faithfulness. [Joshua 14:6](http://biblehub.com/joshua/14-6.htm). Also forcible, [Deut. 1:36](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/1-36.htm). כל, [50](50), is [Kole](/keys/KL), the All. לב, [32](32), is [Laib](/keys/LB), the Heart. A sign of understanding, connected also with Thoth (Dog-headed God) of Egypt, the Mercury ([Kokab](/keys/KVKB)) in Hod, and the [12th path](12) of the letter [Beth](/keys/B). The self-conscious mind of man has always been the herald of the Gods because it is the focal point or center for the ALL. see [145](145), [197](197), [126](126). The little dog companion of the fool, who is a reflection of Jeheshua, or Christ (Joshua).

> *"Now it is written also in Joshua, that among the spies who went forth into the land of Canaan, was Caleb, and that for his good report when others had sought to dissuade Joshua from advancing, the Lord, Blessed be He, rewarded Caleb with long life.*

> *"Now Caleb signifieth dog, and well ye know that this is no name of good repute in Israel. Yet here is a treasure of wisdom that is part of the lore that Moses was instructed in as a youth in Egypt. For the story of Caleb is a figure, and Caleb the dog standeth for faithfulness, but there are deeper things than this. For reckon the number of כלב (52) and behold it is a veil for אימא, for כלב is 52. Now 52 ye know has the number of בן, but it is the number also of אבא ואמא, [aba vama](/keys/ABA.VAMA), or Father and Mother. That is, it representeth the conjoining of Chokmah, אב, with Binah, אימא. What then is the Path of this conjunction of Father and Mother? It is the [24th Path](24) of the Luminous Intelligence which joineth Chokmah to Binah, the Path of the letter [Daleth](/keys/D).*

> *"Now come and see again. The word כלב hath for its first two letters כ and ל, and these spell [Kal](/keys/KL), the ALL. And the last two letters are ל and ב, and these spell [Laib](/keys/LB), the Heart. Now כ and ל are 50, and these are the gates of Binah, and ל and ב are [32](32), and these are the Paths of Wisdom. Thus in Caleb is concealed the secret of the ALL, which is likewise a Secret of the Heart. And is not the heart of [Adam Qadmon](/keys/ADM.QDMVN), Tiphareth the Son, into which pour all the streams of Mezla from above, and from which, for as much as Tiphareth is the Path of Separate Emanations, or mediating influence, and same Mezla descendeth to the Paths which are below? So Caleb is a sign of understanding, for his name as we have said, is of like number with אימא.*


> *"But in Mizraim was their God Thoth represented as a dog-headed man, and that same Thoth is Kokab also, whom the "oppressors" called Mercurious, and among the Sons of the Doctrine it is known that this same Kokab hath its sphere in Hod, and its own Path in the letter Beth. Thus may ye understand that the Intelligence of Transparency is figured by Caleb and with this is creation begun. Of interest to students of our Rota, is the fact that Caleb means dog, and since there is only one dog in the series of pictures the dog in [Key 0](0) is the only one shown in direct association with man, as the pet and companion of the Fool. He is the letter Beth that follows after Aleph, just as the dog follows the Fool. Now Binah is at the lower end of the Path of Beth, and from what is said about the word Caleb, it is evident that the reference to Kokab or Mercury has also a bearing here.*

> *"Caleb, as you have just seen in the Bible, was the son of [Jephunnah](/keys/IPNH), that is יפנה. Now these four letters are worth noticing. The first is Yod, phallic, and also symbol of both Chokmah and Yesod. The second is the letter of Mars; the third the letter of Scorpio, and the last related to Aries and to vision. Remember that Caleb was a spy, and that the Text plainly refers to the perfection of his masculine vigor. Moreover the number of his years is given as [85](85), which is the number of the letter name פה, [Peh](/keys/PH), and this is divided into two parts; [40](40), his age when he served as a spy, and this is a number of [Mem](/keys/M); and [45](45), which elapsed thereafter, which is a numeral symbol of אדם, [Adam](/keys/ADM). That is, the dog became a completed man, and this involves the use and direction of the Mars force in accordance with a reversal of ordinary procedure, for the other spies reported unfavorably and caused the people's hearts to melt. But Caleb at 40 stands for the reversal, symbolized by the Hanged Man.*

> *"This Caleb was not one of the Israelites, he was a Kennizite adopted into Israel, an outsider by birth. But he received his proper reward. The whole passage is an allegory relating to what alchemists call the fixation of Mercury. That is, the highest use of self-consciousness in a creative function, reversing customary attitudes of mind and the activities they prompt, and leading ultimately to the overthrow of error."* [33rd Communication, 2/12/48]

---

### [behemah](/keys/BHMH) - בהמה
> animal, beast. Applies to the larger quadrupeds. Points to Binah as the source of the organic life of the various forms of animal creation below the human level. From these lower forms the human body has been evolved.

---

### [be-kal](/keys/BKL) - בכל
> from all, among all, "in all things". [Genesis 24:1](http://biblehub.com/genesis/24-1.htm). The Binah clause of The Pattern on the Trestleboard begins, "Filled with Understanding.." Zohar says בך in בבך is the designation of the "River of the Waters of which never fail."

---

### [khamad](/keys/ChMD) - חמד
> something desirable; object of delight, take pleasure in. see [177](177), [Gan-Eden](/keys/GN.ODN).

---

### [IHVH spelt in full](/keys/IVD.HH.VV.HH) - יוד הה וו הה
> The divine name of the Father. see [26](26), [104](104).

---

### [zammah](/keys/ZMH) - זמה
> thought, plan, purpose, imagination, meditation; evil device; wickedness, idolatry, incest, shameful seed. In some biblical passages this noun has a good sense and in others a bad one. In itself it is neutral. "Bad" and "Good" have to do with the objectives of planning and thinking. They cannot be applied to the thought-force itself.

> This word is probably the same as the first two words of the mysterious words mentioned by Jesus [Pistis Sophia, Chap. 10]: *"[Zamma Zamma Ozza Rachama Ozai](/keys/ZMH.ZMH.OZA.RChMH.OZIH)."* Probably a transliteration of זמה זמה עזא רחמה עזיה, *"Thought, thought, the power of the womb (or matrix) of the strength of Yah."* The "[Strength of Jah](/keys/OZIH)" (עזיה) is the Life-force seated in Chokmah. The womb of that power is Binah, the Great Mother. In Binah, the Life-force is specialized as the though-force active in Neshamah. see [395](395).

---

### [khebel](/keys/KBL) - כבל
> fetters. [Psalm 105:18](http://biblehub.com/psalms/105-18.htm), [148:8](http://biblehub.com/psalms/148:8.htm); also chain, as anchor chain, submarine cable. as a verb כבל, to chain and כבל, to chain, tie. Creative imagination is the tie that binds, as well as the fetters that chain.

---

### [yahbahm](/keys/IBM) - יבם
> Husband's brother; Brother-in-Law. May apply to Ben [בן], the Son. (The "Husband" is AB, the Father). Also [Yebem](/keys/IBM), the 70th Shemhamphorash, associated with the 4th quinance of Cancer.

---

### [Bim](/keys/BIM) - בים
> Day demon of 2nd decanate of Sagittarius, see [612](612).

---

### [Lauviah](/keys/LAVIH) - לאויה
> Angel of the Order of Thrones and of the Cherubim. see [965](965), [1525](1525). 

> [11th Shemhamphorash](http://guideangel.com/11.html); angel of 4 of Cups; and of 10 of Pentacles; [17th Shemhamphorash](http://guideangel.com/17.html).

> As 11th Shemhamphorash 51°-56°. Ronbomare-Saturn. March 30, June 10, August 20, November 1, January 12. 3:40-4:00 AM. Ps. (Vivit dominus et benedictus dominus mens, et ?exuciaturieus? salus meae). Against (Fondre) and for obtaining victory. Rules renown, influence, through great personages, savants and all who win celebrity by their talents.

> As 17th Shemhamphorash 81°-85° PHUOR - Sun. April 5, June 16, August 27, November 7, January 18. Order of Thrones 5:00 - 5:20 AM. Psalm 8:1 (1st sentence) Against torments of spirits of sorrows and for good repose at night. Rules high sciences, marvelous discoveries, literature and philosophy.

---

### [Lekab](/keys/LKB) - לכב
> 31st Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 1st quinance (1°-5°) of Capricorn.

---

### [Nob](/keys/NB) - נב
> A priestly city in Benjamin [#[162](162)]; [1 Samuel 21:1](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/21-1.htm) *"David went to Nob, to Ahimelech the priest..."*

> Fabre D'Olivet writes: *"נב. The mysterious root אוב being united by contraction to the sign of produced existence; gives rise to a new root, whence emanate all ideas of divine inspiration, theophany, prophecy; and in consequence, that of exaltation, ecstacy, rapture, perturbation, religious horror. The Arabic [word] indicates in general, a shudder; exterior movement cause by interior passion. As onomatopoeic and idiomatic root [Arabic word] denotes the sudden cry of a man or animal keenly roused. Literally, the bark, of a dog. Figuratively [Arabic word] and [Arabic word] expresses the action of one who announces the will of heaven, who prophecies."* [Hebrew Tongue Restored p. 396]

---

### [Magog](/keys/MGVG) - מגוג
> Magog; the second son of Japeth. [Genesis 10:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/10-2.htm) *"The sons of Japeth: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech and Tiras."* According to Fabre D'Olivet the word means "elastic stretching power" for extended explanation see Gog and Magog, #[70](70).

---

### [Iehoel](/keys/IHVAL) - יהואל
> Yahoel; angel of Kether of Binah (Ace of Cups) and Yesod of Binah (Nine of Cups) according to Mathers (S.S. p.8)

> Davidson also gives: Yaho, Jehoel, Jaoel, and adds: *"The angel equated with Metatron (Yohoel is, in fact, the 1st of Metatron's many names. He taught Abraham the Torah and was the patriarch guide on earth as well as in paradise. ...in the Apocalypse of Abraham, another psenoemgraphic work, Yahoel says to Abraham, 'I am called Yohoel... a power by virtue of the ineffable name dwelling in me.' As Jehoer, he is the heavenly choirmaster, or one of them."* [Dictionary of Angels, pp. 317-318]

---

### [Abital](/keys/ABITL) - אביטל
> "Father of Dew", i.e. fresh. The supernal "dew" is a product of the union of Chokmah and Binah.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Hiama](/greek?word=iama) (Gr) - ιαμα
> Blood. In its plural, streams of blood. Its secondary relationship is blood-relationship, kin. It is the substance by means of which the radiant LVX energy of Life is specialized within the physical body. In alchemical doctrines of the Great Work as the means through which states of Higher consciousness are experienced. We are all brothers and sisters in LVX. The letters are the Greek equivalents of those which spells Aima.

> Referred to in connection with prodigies and signs:

> - in [Acts 2:20](http://biblehub.com/acts/2-20.htm): *"the sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before that great and illustrious day of the Lord come."*
> - Also in [Revelation 6:12](http://biblehub.com/revelation/6-12.htm): *"And I saw when he opened the sixth seal, and there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black, as sackcloth of hair, and the entire moon became as blood."*
> - In connection with the Lord's supper, in [Matthew 26:28](http://biblehub.com/matthew/26-28.htm): *"For this in my blood of the covenant, that which is poured out for many, for forgiveness of sins."*
> - Also [John 6:53-56](http://biblehub.com/john/6-53.htm): *"Then Jesus said to them, Indeed I assure you, if you do not eat the flesh of the son of man, and drink his blood; you have no life in yourselves. ([54](http://biblehub.com/john/6-54.htm)) He who eats my flesh, and drinks my blood, has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day. ([55](http://biblehub.com/john/6-55.htm)) For my flesh is the true food, and my blood is the true drink. ([56](http://biblehub.com/john/6-56.htm)) He who eats my flesh, and drinks my blood, abides in me, and I in him."*
> - Used in connection with the human body, man, with the idea of fr?? and mortality, in [Matthew 16:17](http://biblehub.com/matthew/16-17.htm): *"And Jesus answering, said to him, Happy are thou, Simon, son of Jonah; for flesh and blood has not revealed this to thee, but that father of man in the heaven."*.
> - As blood-relationship, kindred, written ἑνὸς in [Acts 17:26](http://biblehub.com/acts/17-26.htm): *"And [God] made from one blood, every nation of men to dwell on the whole face of the earth; having determined the appointed season, and the fixed limits of their habitation."*
> - Of the sons of God, in [John 1:13](http://biblehub.com/john/1-13.htm): "Who were begotten not of blood, not of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God." [Written αἱμάτων].

---

### [Maia](/greek?word=maia) (Gr) - μαια
> The mother of Hermes. Also the mother of Gautama, the Buddha. Maya is likewise the "Mysterious power" of which Krishna declares: *"My Maya is the great womb into which I cast the Seed: from this is the Birth of all creatures."*

---

### [kakia](/greek?word=kakia) (Gr) - κακια
> Badness; wickedness, vice, hence evil. Septuagint translation of רע, (#[270](270)) in [Isaiah 45:7](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/45-7.htm): *"I form the light and create darkness; I make peace and create evil; I the Lord do all these things."* see [270](270), [1977](1977).

---

### [gratia](/latin?word=gratia) (Lt)
> agreeableness, esteem, favor, loveliness, grace. This is the word used in the Latin version of the angel's words to Mary [Luke 1:28](http://biblehub.com/luke/1-28.htm), *"Ave, gratia plena; Dominus tecum; benedicta tu in mulieribus",* literally, "Hail, full of grace; the Lord is with thee; blessed art thou among women." Here is a key to much of the esoteric doctrine of the Gospels.

---

### [rosae](/latin?word=rosae) (Lt)
> of the rose, rosy. Refers to the symbol of the human soul, of aspiration. The red rose symbolizes desire, the white purity (see [421](421) Latin).

---

### [sancta](/latin?word=sancta) (fem.) (Lt)
> sacred, pure, holy. Directly connected with Binah, since the latter is named "Sanctifying Intelligence."

---

### [Humana](/latin?word=Humana) (Lt)
> Human.

---

### [Rosea](/latin?word=Rosea) (Lt)
> "of the stone."

---

### [tendo](/latin?word=tendo) (Lt)
To stretch

---

### See Also:

- [7](7)
- Σ52 = [1378](1378)
