## 54 - Fifty-Four
> (2x3x3x3)

---

### [Matteh](/keys/MTH) - מטה
> rod (of Moses), staff, branch, tribe. As a feminine noun: bed, couch, litter, bier (see [49](49), [311](311)).

---

### [Ve Gedulah](/keys/VGDVLH) - וגדולה
> "And magnificence". Relates of Chesed (see [106](106), [756](756), [120](120), [372](372), [50](50), [406](406), [496](496), [222](222)).

---

### [Dan](/keys/DN) - דן
> Tribe of Dan. Scorpio. Associated with alchemical putrefaction, the 8th stage of the Great Work. Purification is the disintegration of the alchemist own personality. It is effected by turning the Mars-force in a new direction to repudiate one's ignorant interpretation of selfhood. Proper use of mental imagery through meditation daily raises the cross (Saturn center) which carries Mars up to the Sun Center, until the process becomes automatic (see [95](95), [30](30), [570](570), [501](501), [331](331), [7](7)). The standard of the tribe was a coiled serpent.

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"דן. The sign of sympathetic divisibility united to the root אן, symbol of the circumscriptive activity of being, constitutes a root whose purpose is to characterize, in a physical sense, every king of chemical parting in elementary nature; [note: Daleth = Venus, Nun = Mars] and to express, in a moral sense, every contradictory judgement, resting upon litigious things."*

> *"The Arabic [word] offers the same sense in general. In Particular [Arabic word] expreses a mucous excretion. One understands my [Arabic word], the action of judging."* [[Hebrew Tongue Restored p. 324](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/n345)]

---

### [Kach IHVH](/keys/KCh.IHVH) - כח יהוה
> Power of God. [Numbers 14:17](http://biblehub.com/numbers/14-17.htm): *"And now, I beseech thee, let the power of my Lord [אדני] be great, according as thou hast spoken..."* This power is associated with fire and burning is as much as Tetragrammaton is like a devouring Fire. [I.Z.Q: 673] כח יהוה is the designation of מזלא קדישא, [Mezla Qadisha](/keys/MZLA.QDIShA), Holy influence, for the ??? with all concealments (Kether). see [493](493).

---

### [Yediyd IHVH](/keys/IDID.IHVH) - ידיד יהוה
> The beloved of God. [Deuteronomy 33:12](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/33-12.htm): *"And of Benjamin He [Moses] said; the beloved of the Lord shall dwell in safety by him; and the Lord shall cover him all the day long, and he dwelleth between his shoulders."* Note that Benjamin = Sagittarius = alchemical incineration = [Key 14](14). The heart center is "between his shoulders." see [9](9), [18](18), [27](27), [36](36), [45](45), [63](63), [72](72), [81](81), [90](90).

---

### [nahd, ned](/keys/ND) - נד
> A hill, wall, heap, (forming on the water). [Exodus 15:8](http://biblehub.com/exodus/15-8.htm): *"And with the blast of thy nostrils the waters were gathered together, the floods stood upright as a heap, and the depths were congealed in the heart of the sea."*

> [Joshua 3:16](http://biblehub.com/joshua/3-16.htm) *"That the waters which came down from above stood and rose up upon a heap very far from the city Adam, that is beside [Zaretan](/keys/TzRThN), צרתן (#[740](740)): and those that came down toward the sea of the plain, even the salt sea, failed, and were cut off: and the people passed over right against Jericho"* ([Jericho](/keys/IRIChV), יריחו, #[234](234), "place of fragrance, City of Palm trees"). see [Key 20](20), Judgement for the blast of the trumpet and the sea.

---

### [demiy](/keys/DMI) - דמי
> ceasing, still; cutting off, standing still. From the verb דמה (see [49](49)). In silence the personality ceases and man becomes the "image and likeness" of God. Also דמי dahmi, quite, rest; as an adjective, דמי, dawmi, sanguinary. This word is from the noun DM dam (or dawn), blood. These meanings are shown in [Key 13](13) plainly enough. see [44](44).

> demiy "rest' *"and give you no rest, until the Lord establish you and until I make Jerusalem a praise in the earth."* Also "tranquility", prosperity, in [Isaiah 38:10](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/38-10.htm): *"I said, in the tranquility of my days I shall die, at the gates of Sheol I am deprived of the rest of my years."*

---

### [Daleth/Nun](/keys/D.N) - ד נ
> Venus in Scorpio.

---

### [aggahn](/keys/AGN) - אגן
> a bowl or basin; a disk. also אגן ogen, Brim, rim of a vessel, edge; handle. In [Key 14](14) the angel is pouring fire water from two vessels or bowls.

---

### [khoom](/keys/ChVM) - חום
> to be burned; blackish; hence as a color, swarthy, blackness, brown, dark. Also to have pity, spare. see [614](614).

---

### [yelahat](/keys/ILHT) - ילהט
> It will flame (or burn). The power of God.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Coagula](/latin?word=Coagula) (Lt)
> Coagulate. In alchemy to solidify, and has to do with heat. But remember that the alchemist say that they "burn with water," and Scorpio is a watery sign ruled by Mars. see [64](64), solve.

---

### [Ignis](/latin?word=Ignis)
> Fire.

---

### [Pater](/latin?word=Pater)
> Father (name of God).

---

### [Lapidem](/latin?word=Lapidem) (Lt)
> Stone. The "Stone of the Wise" or EGO. Part of an alchemical phrase in Secret Symbols (page 17). *"Visit the interior of the earth, by rectifying you shall find the hidden stone."* see [570](570) (Lt), [53](53).

---

### English Gematria:

- [this](/english?word=this) *([Fama Intro p.12](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n12))*
- [light](/english?word=light) *([Fama Intro p.13](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13))*

---

### See Also:

- [9](9)
