## 55 - Fifty-Five
> (5x11) Σ10 = 55

> Kaph represents comprehension, Lamed symbolizes Justice and is related to action. Heh is the foresight which gives authority and power over circumstance. To grasp the meaning of experience is to act to make the adjustments this comprehension necessitates. The fruit of this is true vision real insight and dependable foresight. See [998](998).

---

### [Kallah](/keys/KLH) - כלה
> the crowned one, The bride, (of Melek, the King in Tiphareth). Name of Malkuth. Refers to the New Jerusalem, the holy city or manifested Kingdom. see [1006](1006), [543](543), [496](496). [Revelations 21:9](http://biblehub.com/revelation/21-9.htm). Also כלה to be complete, be completed, be finished.

---

### [Ab-Aima](/keys/AB.AIMA) - אב אימא
> Father-Mother. Combines the titles of Chokmah and Binah which intimates that in Malkuth is the balanced manifestation of the male potency of wisdom and the female potency of understanding. Symbolized by the central figure in [Key 21], The World.

---

### [be-ehben](/keys/BABN) - באבן
> "with (or in) a stone." [Exodus 21:18](http://biblehub.com/exodus/21-18.htm)

---

### [nah](/keys/NH) - נה
> ornament, beauty. Fabre D'Olivet writes: *"נה. This root is the analogue of the root נא and as it, characterizes that which is fresh, young, recent: thence; נוה state of being young, alert, vigorous, pleasing; in consequence, action of forming a colony, founding a new habitation, establishing ones flock elsewhere, etc. נח onomatopoeic root which describes the long moaning of a person who weeps, suffers, sobs. the Arabic [word]; depicts every king of noise, clamor."* [Hebrew Tongue Restored p. 398]

---

### [ha-dom](/keys/HDVM) - הדום
> a footstool, a stool, a resting-place for the feet. "The earth is my footstool [Isaiah 66:1](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/66-1.htm). Note that Malkuth is the only Sephirah referring to the element of Earth.

---

### [ha-kal, ha-kol](/keys/HKL) - הכל
> all, everything, the All. In the Kingdom are all the powers conjoined, and the Kingdom is the physical body of man to which the name Guph is given. Malkuth represents the sumtotal of the influences on the Tree of Life, concentrated into the field of manifestation called the "world"; the world of physical man s sensory experience, the world of his mental impressions of sensations experienced through his body. Bodily contact with this field of sensation is the basis of all human knowledge.

---

### [ha-adamah](/keys/HADMH) - האדמה
> ground. It is from the same root as [ADM], Adam, Man. [Genesis 2:6](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-6.htm); *"But a mist went up from the earth, and altered the whole face of the ground."* (See 5, 44, 45). 

---

### [hawlak](/keys/HLK) - הלך
> to go, to walk, depart; to follow; to pass away, disappear; as a noun: traveler, flowing. With different vowel points: to swell, heave.

---

### [gezilah](/keys/GZILH) - גזילה
> robbery, pillage. Refers to the tendency of the senses, centered in Malkuth, to produce illusion of separate personal existence and thus to induce man to ascribe to himself instead to the One Life, powers and possessions which he cannot rightly administer. This is sometimes called "idolatry".

---

### [gannawb](/keys/GNB) - גנב
> thief, robber; as a verb גנב: to steal, rob. also גנב: to steal away.

---

### [doomah](/keys/DVMH) - דומה
> Silence, stillness; Also Dumah, angel of dead. As a masculine noun: silence.

> The Zohar [Prologue 8A-B, pp.34, 36] says: *"The angel presiding over Gehinnom is called Duma, and these are tens of thousands of angels of destruction under him. He stands at its door, but those who have carefully guarded the sign of the holy covenant he has no power to touch... Duma returned then crest fallen to his place. It is in regard to this that David said: Unless the Lord had been my help, but a little would been wanting that my soul had dwelt in Duma (silence). [Psalm 94:17](http://biblehub.com/psalms/94-17.htm). That is, if the Lord had not been my advocate, it wanted but little, etc. Only by the hair breadth which is between me and the sinister power did my soul escape from the clutches of Duma. A man should therefore be on his guard not to let slip and incautious word like David, since we will not be able to plead with Duma, that it was an error [Ecclesiastes 5:5](http://biblehub.com/ecclesiastes/5-5.htm), Like David, who was vindicated by the Holy One, blessed be His name; wherefore should God be angry at thy voice, and destroy the work of thy hands? [IBID], i.e. the flesh of the holy covenant which the man has defiled and which, as a punishment, is stretched in Gehinnom at the hands of Duma."*

---

### [Dumah](/keys/DVMH) - דומה
> Duke of Edom, a hidden reference to Daath. [Isaiah 21:11](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/21-11.htm): *"The oracle concerning Edom דומה [Dumah](/keys/DVMH, One keeps calling me from Sier [reference to Edom, MShOIR, from Sier], 'Watchman how far gone is the night?' 'Watchman, how far gone is the night?'"* [literally, what is the time of the night].

---

### [chavliah](/keys/ChVLIA) - חוליא
> knuckle, member, link. In the Biblical allegory, Eve (the Bride) was formed by God from a rib (limb) of Adam.

---

### [hen](/keys/HN) - הן
> Lo!; whether, if; "behold" in [Genesis 4:14](http://biblehub.com/genesis/4-14.htm) *"Behold, you have this day driven me out from the face of the land, and from your face shall I be hidden; and I shall be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth; and it shall come to pass, that whoever finds me shall slay me."* Said my Cain to יהוה for root meaning see 705.

---

### [Miah](/keys/MIH) - מיה
> 48th name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 6th quinance (26°-30°) of Pisces. see [86](86), [1525](1525).

---

### [hime](/keys/HIM) - הים
> to swell, heave; murmur, roar, discomfort. [Micah 2:12](http://biblehub.com/micah/2-12.htm) *"I will surely gather all of you, O Jacob; I will surely bring together the remanet of Israel. I will bring them together like sheep in a pen, like a flock in its pasture, they shall make great noise (i.e. murmur); the place will throng with people."* see [HVM](/keys/HVM), #[51](51).

---

### [negeb](/keys/NGB) - נגב
> south, south country, mid-day; to be dry. As a noun: to be dry.

---

### [chamaz](/keys/ChMZ) - חמז
> Image; hid, concealed; sun-pillar (idol of Baal). [This was under 98, in PFC orginal gematria file]

---

## Greek/Latin

---

### [Ageleia](/greek?word=ageleia) (Gr) - Αγελεια
> Title of Athena. "She who carries off the spoils," said by occult tradition to have been used by Pythagoreans, in reference to the number 7. (She who drives of the Spoils.") 7 and 10 are related, because the extension of 7 is 28, which reduces to 10. the extension of 10 is 406, which reduces to 10 (see 406).

---

### [Lethe](/greek?word=lhthh) (Gr) - ληθη
> river of oblivion (in underworld). In Malkuth natural man has forgotten his true identity.

---

### [Aquila](/latin?word=Aquila) (Lt)
> Eagle. The bird of aspiration and vision. Connected with Scorpio and the Mars force. In the Confessio Fraternitatis, it is said of the brethren "no longer are we beheld by human eyes, unless they have received strength borrowed from the Eagle." Paul Case: "Eagle = Aquila = Scorpio. "Strength" is [Key 8](8) in the Tarot.

> Also it may be noted that the Eagle = Shekinah and "Shekinah ex parte throni ??? aquila" [The divine presence from the part of the throne (i.e. Binah) is called the eagle] and also "similtudo homis" [The likeness of man]. K.D. [Kabala Denudath, or the Kabalah Unveiled], (Sulzback ed. 1667).

> see also [K.D.L.C.K. p. 600], Where it relates the eagle to Malkuth; and Malkuth when it is raised unto Tiphareth, as in [Proverbs 30:19](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/30-19.htm): *"The way of an eagle in the air."* Binah moreover is called the "Great Winged Eagle"; and its wings the six Sephiroth. By gematria נשר, [nasher](/keys/NShR), eagle = [550](550) = [shebet barzel](/keys/ShBT.BRZL), שבט ברזל, Rod of Iron and שרים, [sawrim](/keys/ShRIM), princes."

---

### [Iehova](/latin?word=Iehova) (Lt)
> Jehovah. Name of God.

---

### [mundi](/latin?word=mundi) (Lt)
> of the world (possessive). Refers to the Kingdom of the physical plane, the sphere of embodied action recorded by the senses (see 89).

---

### [renes](/latin?word=renes) (Lt)
> Reins, i.e. the kidneys, associated with balance and Libra. In later Hebrew כליות, [kilyoth](/keys/KLIVTh), (kidneys) sometimes means the testicles; when very little was known of anatomy it was supposed that both urine and semen were secreted by the kidneys. thus the word (in Hebrew) refers, physically, the primary sources of bodily power and vigor. Furthermore, the Hebrews shared the belief of all the ancient world, that the loins and reins were the seat of the lower mind, called [Greek word] in Greek. It is from the Greek noun that the Latin renes, signifying kidneys, was derived, and renes passed into English as reins. [ML 40:10]

---

### See Also:

- [10](10)
- [550](550)