## 56 - Fifty-Six
> 7x8. Number of minor Tarot cards. The length of the 7 vertical lines bounding the vault of Brother CR. The crest on the obverse on the Great Seal of the U.S.

---

### [Yom](/keys/IVM) - יום
> Day, light of day, time, season. [[Genesis 1:5](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-5.htm)] gives Yom as God's own name for light, the Qabalistic symbol of the Manifest (see [69](69)), as contrasted with the darkenss, to which the name Night is give, as representing the Unmanifest. With different vowel points, [Yoom](/keys/IVM) - to be warm or bright.

> Gaskell suggests that days are *"symbolic of periods of manifestation -- cycles of involution and evolution. The six days of Genesis are all periods of involution, not evolution... The light is the consciousness, the spirit-side of being, whilst the darkness is the material, the form-side of nature. Evening and morning are symbolic of the indrawing and the outgoing forces, constituting the first Life-wave."* [Dictionary of all Scriptures and Myths, p.202]

---

### [Kebode Jehovah](/keys/KBVD.IHVH) - כבוד יהוה
> "The Glory of IHVH." [Exodus 16:10](http://biblehub.com/exodus/16-10.htm): *"they looked toward the wilderness, and, behold, the glory of the LORD appeared in the cloud."*

---

### [kool](/keys/KVL) - כול
> to comprehend, measure, hold, or compromise, to keep in, to contain. In Richardson s Monitor of Freemasonry (p. 43) As part of the Mark Mason s degree, the candidate takes in each hand a small block of white marble about 4 inches square and six inches long, weighing about 11 pounds each.

> Paul case has this note: *"Boundary lines = [24](24) (4x6) + [32](32) (8x4) = [56](56) = 7x8 = to measure = [kool](/keys/KVL) כול. Note that the weight of the 2 stones = 22. [22](22) is the circumference of a circle or cycle of manifestation."* see [malakah](/keys/MALAKH) (g.[96](96)), [shesh](/keys/ShSh) (g.[600](600)).

---

### [neah, noah](/keys/NAH) - נאה
> beautiful, comely, becoming, befitting, lovely.

---

### [nawawh](/keys/NAH) - נאה
> dwelling, habitations, pasture, meadow. 23rd Psalm: *"He maketh me to lie down in green pastures."* to be lonely, be befitted.

---

### [naweh](/keys/NAH) - נאה
> becoming, well.

---

### [naah](/keys/NAH) - נאה
> to adorn oneself; also: to beatify, decorate. The result of the light which shines into darkness.

---

### [Hoham](/keys/HVHM) - הוהם
> "God of the Multitude." King of Hebron (Amorite King) [Joshua 10:3](http://biblehub.com/joshua/10-3.htm): *"Wherefore Adonai Zedec King of Jerusalem sent unto Hoham King of Hebron..."*

> Represents the false notion of deity held by the masses of ignorant persons. Also a symbol of the exclusiveness and of the inequalities of classes which derive directly from the false notion of God. For he King of Hebron, that is, King of the Court, so and of hereditary aristocracy. see [56](56), [321](321).

---

### [aimay](/keys/AIMH) - אימה
> dread, terror, fear.

---

### [anah](/keys/ANH) - אנה
> He suffered; to sigh, lament, to mourn, to wrong (see [650](650)). With different vowel points: to bring about, cause, to happen, overreach in.

---

### [Haiael](/keys/HIIAL) - הייאל
> "God, Master of the Universe." ??th Shemhamphorash angel of the 4 of Cups (Chesed of Briah). 351°-355°. ?PTIBIOU? May 29, August 9, October 20, December 31, March 13. 11:20-11:40 PM.

> [Psalm 109:30](http://biblehub.com/psalms/109-30.htm): *"I will give great praise and thanks to the Lord with my mouth; yes, I will praise him among the multitude."* To confound the wicked, and to deliver from those who see to oppress us. Protects all who have ?recoude? to him, gives victory to the ?genius? of war. Person born: Has much energy; will love military life, and will distinguish himself by ?H???, talents and actions. see [25](25), [965](965), [1525](1525).

---

### [Abigail](/keys/ABIGIL) - אביגיל
> Abigail, "Father is Rejoicing"; "Father of Joy", "Source of Joy."

> [1 Samuel 25:3](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/25-3.htm): *"Now the name of the man was Nabal; and the name of his wife Abigail: and she was a woman of good understanding, and of a beautiful countenance: but the man was churlish and evil in his doings; and he was of the house of Caleb."* variant spelling, see [46](46), [82](82).

---

### [Nu](/keys/NV) - נו
> An Egyptian Goddess, Hebrew transliteration. As a Hebrew root, Fabre D'Olivet notes: *נו. Nou. the convertible sign Vav, image of the bond which unites being and nothingness, which communicates from one nature to another, being joined to that of produced existence, produces a root whose sense, entirely vague and indeterminate is fixed only by means of the terminative sign by which it is accomplished.*

> *The Arabic [word] is an onomatopoetic and idomatic root which depicts the aversion that one experiences in doing a thing, the disgust that it inspires. As verb, it is the action of being repugnnant, of refusing, of being unwilling.* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 398](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/398/mode/2up)]

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [angus](/latin?word=angus) (Lt)
> Lamb. Symbol of the mystical Son of God.

---

### [terra](/latin?word=terra) (Lt)
> Earth. Refers to the physical plane which holds all times and seasons (see [291](291)). *"You will never discover anything unless you first enter my workshop, where, in the inmost bowels of the earth I ceaseless forge metals: There you may find the substance which I use, and discover the method of my work."* [Hermetic Museum I, p. 122]. Paul Case links earth in this sentence to Virgo. see [570](570) Virgo = alchemical distillation.

> *"Therefore, beloved brother, let me warn you to have nothing to do with subliminations of sulphur and mercury, or the solution of bodies or the coagulation of spirits, or with all the innumerable alembics, which bear little profit unto veritable art. So long as you do not seek the true essence of nature, your labors will be doomed to failure; therefore, if you desire success, you must once for all renounce your allegiance to all those old methods, and enlist under the standards of that method which proceeds instruct obedience to the teaching of nature-in short, the method which nature herself pursues in the bowels of the earth"* (Case: Virgo) [[Hermetic Museum I, p. 152-153](https://archive.org/stream/b24927363_0001#page/152/mode/2up)] see [496](496).

> *"The sages have written about may waters, stones and metals, for the purpose of deceiving you. You that desire a knowledge of our art, relinquishing Sun, Moon, Saturn and Venus for our ore (#[23](23) Latin) and our earth, and why so? Every thing is of the nature of No thing."* [[Hermetic Museum I. p. 204](https://archive.org/stream/b24927363_0001#page/204/mode/2up)]

> *"The stone is mystic, or secret, because it is found in a secret place, in an universally despised substance where no one looks for the greatest treasure of the world."* (IBID, p. 226) (Case: viz, in Virgo, where it is felt, but not seen.)

---

### [gloria](/latin?word=gloria) (Lt)
> glory. The Light of God which shines on all things (see [74](74), [126](126), [136](136), [237](237)).

---

### [turba](/latin?word=turba) (Lt)
> tumult, uproar, disturbance, commotion, especially one caused by a crowd of people. Title of an early alchemical treatise with the Turba Philosophours. Jacob Boehme writes: *"And it is highly recognizable by us how the imagination of the eternal nature has the turba in the craving, in the mystery, but not awakenable, unless the creature, as the mirror of eternity, doth itself awaken this, viz. the fierce wrath, which is eternity is hidden in mystery."* [Mysterium Pansolphicum, V, p. 161]

---

### [metalla](/latin?word=metalla) (Lt)
> metal. One of seven interior centers, also known as planets, stars and chakras; a vortice of Life-force connected with an inner body or plane of consciousness in the microcosm. In alchemy, one of the constituents of the stone of the wise.

---

### English Gematria:

- [learned](/english?word=learned) *([Fama Intro p.13](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13/mode/2up))*

---

### See Also

- [11](11)
- [2](2)
