## 57 - Fifty-Seven
> ([3](3)x[19](19))

---

### [mitowb](/keys/MTVB) - מטוב
good, better. [Psalm 52:3](http://biblehub.com/psalms/52-3.htm): *"You love evil more than **good,** and lying more than speaking what is right."*

---

### [abdan, ahbaydawn](/keys/ABDN) - אבדן
> Abbadon; destruction, ruin, perdition. [Esther 8:6](http://biblehub.com/esther/8-6.htm). *"For how can I endure to see the evil that shall come unto my people? Or how can I endure to see the **destruction** of my kindred?"* (Note the combination of אב, the father and דן, [Dan](/keys/DN), Judgement in this word. (Thus "Father of Judgement") One of the 7 infernal mansions depicted on the diagram of the 4 seas. see [337](337), [911](911), [99](99), [1026](1026), [566](566), [108](108), [291](291); [54](54), [3](3); [64](64), [707](707).

---

### [On](/keys/AVN) - און
> a city in lower Egypt called by the Greeks Heliopolis (City of the Sun). [Genesis 41:50](http://biblehub.com/genesis/41-50.htm), [Jeremiah. 43:13](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/43-13.htm). Heliopolis is the sun of the Bible, *"and the meaning is that it was the sun of art that caused the resurrection of the lifeless bird from dead ashes"* [D.D. Bryant: The Art of Alchemy, IX, p. 8] *"It was to a daughter of the priest of On that Joseph (multiplier) was married. Her name was Asenaith.. She was the daughter of Potipheria..."* [Paul Case note, OP, cit.]

> Fabre D'Olivet writes: *"אן. an onomatopoeic root which depicts the agonies of the soul; pain, sorrow, anhelation.  אן The Arabic [word] used as verb, signifies to sigh, to complain. און Every idea of pain, sorrow, trouble, calamity. אן The signs which compose the root, are those of power and of individual existence. They determine together the seity, sameness, selfsameness, or the me of the being, and limit the exitent of its circumscription. אן. In a brother sense, it is the sphere of moral activity; in a restricted sense, it is the body of the being. One says in Hebrew, אני I; as if one said my sameness, that which constitutes the sum of my faculties, my circumscription."* [[Hebrew Tongue Restored p. 296](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/n317/mode/2up)]

---

### [own](/keys/AVN) - און
> ability, strength, power, manly vigor. [Genesis 49:3](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-3.htm): *"Reuben, thou art my firstborn, my might, and the beginning of my **strength,** the excellency of dignity, and the excellency of power:"*

> Also: wealth, riches; bill of sale, deed.

---

### [awven](/keys/AVN) - און
> trouble, grief; sorrow, wickedness, idolatry. Root meaning of both words implies effort. In "own", the effort succeeds, in Awven, it comes to nothingness, vanity. wickedness, affliction, pain [Psalm 90:10](http://biblehub.com/psalms/90-10.htm).

---

### [onow](/keys/AVN) - אנו
His strength. [Job 18:12](http://biblehub.com/job/18-12.htm). *"His strength shall be hungerbitten..."*

---

### [Anov](/keys/ANV) - אנו
> the pronoun "we." Suggest that by eliminating the illusion of separation one realizes that all spiritual powers of the cosmos find expression in the magical operation.

---

### [iyoom](/keys/AIVM) - איום
> threat, warning; fright, terror, formidable, terrible. see [617](617)

---

### [bawnah](/keys/BNH) - בנה
> to build, erect; to establish, to raise, to build up. also: BNH: to establish firmly (note this word contains BN, Ben, the Son + Heh, vision or constitution power of the Father, AB). see [108](108), [53](53).

---

### [dawgim](/keys/DGIM) - דגים
> fishes; sign of Pisces, the 12th sign of the Zodiac, attributed to the Letter Qoph, the Corporeal or bodybuilding intelligence. All the above words [אבדן, איום, בנה, כלוא] apply in various ways to incarnation. The physical body is continually perishing, yet it is while we are incarnate that it is that which is the means to all wealth and power. It is the basis of all effort, yet if it be separated from the directing spirit it is nothingness and vanity. It is the cause of all our terrors, when we misuse it or misinterpret it. (see [259](259), [389](389), [186](186)).

---

### [dawgawn](/keys/DGN) - דגן
> corn, grain. [Genesis 27:28](http://biblehub.com/genesis/27-28.htm): *"Therefore God give thee of the dew of Heaven, and the fatness of the earth, and plenty of corn and wine."* see [707](707).

---

### [kelva](/keys/KLVA) - כלוא
> a prison [Jeremiah 37:4](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/37-4.htm): *"Now Jeremiah came in and went out among the people: for they had put him into prison."* (Jeremiah means "God is exacted". see [265](265))

> [Jeremiah 53:31](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/53-31.htm): *"And it came to pass... that evil Merodach King of Babylon... lifted up the head of Jehoiachin, King of Judah (alchemical digestion), and brought him forth out of prison"* (Jehoiakim = Jehovah raises up") see [3](3), [12](12), [21](21), [30](30), [39](39), [48](48), [66](66).

---

### [mazbech](/keys/MZBCh) - מזבח
> altar, derived from זבח, to slaughter, to sacrifice. The altar represents truth and conformity to the cosmic order. What is sacrificed or destroyed is the sense of personal separateness. What is killed out is the illusion that one does anything of oneself.

---

### [avkel](/keys/AVKL) - אוכל
> consuming; "he that eats," eater, consumer.

---

### [bettol](/keys/BITVL) - ביטול
> a breaking down, subversion, destruction, annulment, cessation.

---

### [machaboah](/keys/MChBVA) - מחבוא
> making secret, the laying by, hiding-place. From חבא, to hide, to conceal.

---

### [hawben](/keys/HBN) - הבן
> comprehend. also: הבן, ebony. The metathesis of בנה, to build. Comprehension is the result of building; understanding is the ebony black color of [Binah](/keys/BINH), builder of form. see [67](67), [707](707). Also: הבן (ha-Ben), the son. see [53](53).

---

### [Levoiah](/keys/LVVIH) - לוויה
> "God who takes away sins". 19th Shemhamphorash. 91°-95°. SOTIS Venus. April 7, June 18, August 29, November 9, January 20. 6:00-6:20 AM. [Psalm 40:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/40-1.htm) *"I waited patiently for the Lord; and he inclined unto me, and heard my cry."* To obtain the grace of God. Rules the memory and intelligence of Man. Person born: amiable and enjonee, modest in words, simple in his manner of life, supporting adversity with resignation and much patience.

---

### [Vevaliah](/keys/VVLIH) - ווליה
> "King Dominator." 43rd Shemhamphorash 211°-215°. STOCHNE, Sagittarius. May 1, July 12, September 22, December 3, February 13. 2:00-2:20 PM. [Psalm 87:3](http://biblehub.com/psalms/87-3.htm) *"Glorious things are spoken of thee, O city of God, Selah."* Rules peace, influences the prosperity of empires; makes firm the thrones and power of kings. Person born: Loves military state, become celebrated by his feats of arms, and will gain the confidence of his prince by services rendered to him.

---

### [bohen](/keys/BHN) - בהן
> "thumb," big toe. Has a distinctly phallic significance. [Exodus 29:20](http://biblehub.com/exodus/29-20.htm): *"then thou shalt kill the ram, and take of his blood, and put it upon the tip of the right ear of his sons, and upon the thumb of their right hand, and upon the great toe of their right foot, and sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about."* see [707](707). The reference is to the consecrating of priests.

---

### [zahn](/keys/ZN) - זן
> species, kind; "sort" in [Psalm 144:13](http://biblehub.com/psalms/144-13.htm): *"Our barns will be filled with every kind of provisions. Our sheep will increase by the thousands, by tens of thousands in our fields."*

> Fabre D'Olivet writes on the root: *"זן. The demonstrative sign united to the root אן, symbol of the moral or physical circumscription of the being, constitutes a root which develops two distinct meanings according as they are considered as mind or matter. From the view point of mind, it is a moral manifestation which makes the faculties of the being understood and determines the kind, for that of matter, it is a physical manifestation which delivers the body and abandons it to pleasure. Thence: זן Every classification by sort and by kind according to the faculties: every pleasure of the body for its nourishment: figuratively, all lewdness, fornication, debauchery: a prostitute, a place of prostitution, etc.*

> *The Arabic [word] empresses a sort of suspension of opinion in things of divers natures. As an onomatopoetic root [Arabic word], describes a murmuring.*

> *זון action of being nourished, feeding the body; or metaphorically the action of enjoying, making abuse, prostituting one's self."* [Hebrew Tongue Restored p. 343] see [707](707)

---

## Latin/Greek:

---

### [bonum](/latin?word=bonum) (Lt)
> utility, profit, good.

---

### [lumen](/latin?word=lumen) (Lt)
> light (literally and figuratively). see [570](570).

---

### [ratio](/latin?word=ratio) (Lt)
[Rule](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=ratio). account, reckoning, invoice; plan; prudence; method; reasoning; rule; regard.

> *"The human understanding is divided into seven powers.... The sixth coordinates all these according to their relationships--**ratio**"*

> *"Our understanding is formed after that of Jesus Christ:... (6) when, in short, we co-ordinate the whole edifice of our ideas and spirit upon the model of his ideas and spirit--**ratio**"* {[Karl von Eckartshausen, The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary, letter VI](cloud-upon-sanctuary)}

---

### [eligere](/latin?word=eligere) (Lt)
[pick out, choose](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=eligere).

> *"Our heart is also reformed in like manner, when in everything... (5) we choose only that which He is, and we avoid all that He is not--**eligere.**"* {[Karl von Eckartshausen, The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary, letter VI](cloud-upon-sanctuary)}

---

### English Gematria:

- [Dreams](/english?word=Dreams) *([Fama Intro p.12](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n12/mode/2up))*
- [Pedant](/english?word=Pedant) *([Fama Intro p.13](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13/mode/2up))*

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)