## 58 - Fifty-Eight
> (2x29)

---

### [Kabode IHVH](/keys/KBVD.IHVH) - כבוד יהוה
> "The Glory of IHVH." [Exodus 16:10](http://biblehub.com/exodus/16-10.htm): *"And it came to pass, as Aaron spake unto the whole congregation of the children of Israel, that they looked toward the wilderness, and, behold, the glory of the Lord appeared in the cloud."*

---

### [khane](/keys/ChN) - חן
> love, kindness, grace, precious. Notariqon for, [Chokmah Nesethrah](/keys/ChKMH.NSThRH), [חכמה נסתרה], the Secret Wisdom, i.e. the Qabalah (see [111](111), [53](53), [788](788), [60](60)).

---

### [ha-ehben](/keys/HABN) - האבן
> the stone (see [53](53)).

---

### [Nogah](/keys/NGH) - נגה
> the sphere of Venus, Netzach; shining, brightness, morning star. Variant spelling (see [64](64)).

---

### [Noah](/keys/NCh) - נח
> rest, cessation. pleasing, kind. Ark builder. marks a period of parlaya, or rest in cycles of cosmic manifestation (see [936](936)).

> This name appears in [Genesis 5:29](http://biblehub.com/genesis/5-29.htm): *"And he called his name Noah, saying He shall comfort us concerning our work and toil of our hands: because of the ground which the Lord hath cursed"*

> Fabre D'Olivet renders this verse:

> > *"And he called his name Noah (repose of elementary nature), saying, this shall rest us (our existence) and lighten our labor, and the physical obstacles of our hands, because of the Adamic element which יהוה has cursed."*

> > He comments: *"נח. Noah... or Noe, as it has been vulgarly written following the orthography of the Hellenist translators. The root from which this important name comes, is composed of the sign of produced being Nun, image of reflected existence, and the sign of the effort of nature Cheth, which gives birth to vital equilbrium, to existence. this root offers the idea of that perfect repose, which, for a thing long agitated in opposed directions, results in that state of equilibrium where it dwells immobile.*

> > *Nearly all the tongues of the orient understands this mysterious expression. The Hebrew and the Chaldaic draw from it two verbs. By the first נהוה, one understands, to lead to the end, to guide toward the place of repose; by the second, נוא, to repose, to rest tranquil, to be in a state of peace, of calm, of perfect bliss. It is from the latter, tht the name of the cosmogonic personage who saw the end of the world and its renewal, is derived. It is the emblem of the repose of elementary existence, the sleep of nature."* [Hebrew Tongue Restored p. pp. 167-168]

> The Zohar [I:58A-B] comments: *"And he called his name Noah saying, this shall comfort us etc. How did Noah's father know this? In this way, when God cursed the earth, Adam said to him, sovereign of the Universe, how long shall the earth be subject to this curse? God replied: Until a descendant of yours shall be born ???, like yourself. So that waited until at last a child was born circumcised and marked with the holy sign. When his father saw this, and observed the Shekinah hovering over him, he called him Noah [literally rest], in anticipation of his future career. For up to his time men did not know the proper way to sow or reap or plough, and they used to work the ground with their hands. But when Noah came, he taught the arts of husbandry, and devised for them the necessary implements. Hence it is written: The one shall comfort us for our work and for the toil of our hands. It was indeed Noah who liberated the earth from its curse; for up to his time they used to sow wheat and reap thorns and thistles; here Noah is called "[A man of the ground](/keys/AISh.HADMH)." [366](366). [Genesis 9:20](http://biblehub.com/genesis/9-20.htm). Rabbi Judah said "The word [Man](/keys/AISh) ([311](311)) is applied to him because he was righteous, and through the sacrifice which he brought, he liberated the earth from its curse ... When Noah was born, they gave him a name which connoted rest, in the hope that it would work out its own fulfillment for them. His relation to God, however, is expressed by the same letters in the reverse order, viz. חן (favor), as it is written, ??? Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord ; whereas the anagram of the name offer the (wicked) son of Judah is רע [ra](/keys/RO) (evil), and of him it is written And er was evil in the sight of the Lord [Genesis 38:17](http://biblehub.com/genesis/38-17.htm). When Noah grew up, he saw how mankind were sinning before God, he withdrew himself form their society and sought to serve his master, so as not to be led astray by them. He was especially diligent in the study of the Book of Adam and the Book of Enoch... and from them he learnt the proper forms in which to worship God. This explains how he knew it was incumbent upon him to bring an offering; it was these books which revealed to him the basis on which the existence of the world depends, to wit, the sacrifices, without which neither the higher nor the lower world can endure."* (pp. 187-189)

> Gaskell suggest that Noah is *"A symbol of the individuality, or the manifested self in evolution--the permanent center of evolution in the soul. It is the Buddhi-manasic principle, or the incarnation of the self as applying to the three lower planes... The Noah principle... is perfection of the soul according to its sage of development. The knowledge it possessed is derived from within (walked with God)."* [Dictionary of all Scriptures and Myths, p. 538]

> A. Jukes writes: *"Noah is the divinely appointed figure, in whom the whole cause of regeneration is set forth, every secret of this great mystery being here drawn for us as God alone could draw it.. Noah, then, is the spiritual mind, for he is only the continuation of Seth's line, and figures the form of life which the spiritual mind takes as this stage in its development, when it has come so far as to know the judgement of the old creation, and the way through that Judgement to a cleansed and better world."* [Types of Genesis, pp. 104-105] Rosenroth, in [K.D.L.C.K. p. 69] says this word is equivalent in number to און. [quote ends here]

---

### [Kalah](/keys/KLCh) - כלח
> Calah, "perfection", also "a trunk or pillar"; also כלח "He is firm", or "pining with desire". This name was borne by an Assyrian City (according to Inman), and it may have been derived from a word like כלה [Calah](/keys/KLH), "adorned", crowned , a bride , equivalent to the virgin , or Ishtar; if so, we may compare it to [Greek word], Kalee, beautiful ." [Genesis 10:11](http://biblehub.com/genesis/10-11.htm): *"out of that Land [Shinar] went forth Asshur, and built Ninevah, and the City Rehoboth, and Calah."* [Ancient Faiths, p. 382]

> But Fabre D'Olivet suggest that Calah means the growing wise, old men ruling within: *"The word כלח, which signifies literally, an ancient, an old man, that is to say, a man whom age and experience have led to perfection. Thence by extension, the idea of a senate, of an assembly of old men, of a wise and conservative institution."* [Hebrew Tongue Restored p. 284] see [55](55).

---

### [Abihail](/keys/ABIHIL) - אביהיל
> "Possessor of Night." variant spelling. also called Abigail [2 Samuel 18:25](http://biblehub.com/2_samuel/18-25.htm): "...Abigail, the daughter of Nehash." Nahash is the serpent, or the power connected with Scorpio. see [358](358), [61](61), [499](499).

---

### [chyawli](/keys/ChILI) - חילי
> my strength, power, might.

---

### [talihad](/keys/TLIHD) - טליהד
> ruler of water. i.e. the alchemical Water or "Water of Mercury."

---

### [Dagan](/keys/DAGN) - דאגן
> Night demon of 1st decanate of Sagittarius. דא means "this"; גן means "garden:.(i.e. the garden of subconsciousness). This decanate is under the rulership of Jupiter and suggest the negative attributes of depression, indetirmination and shortsightedness on subconsciousness levels." also D+G = דג, [dag](/keys/DG), fish = Pisces = או = "where, whither?" see [7](7), [51](51).

---

## Greek/Latin

---

### [crux](/latin?word=crux) (Lt)
> cross (see [1274](1274) Greek). Refers to the golden cross of 6 squares, belonging to the Rosicrucian order "which every brother carries on his breast" [Secret Symbols]. see [109](109), [246](246), [66](66), [62](62), [47](47) (Lt). Also see the equal-armed cross of the 4 elements, the cross of Tav on the breast of [Key 2](2).

---

### [Lectio](/latin?word=lectio) (Lt)
Reading. See [112](112) (Lt).

---

### English Gematria:

- [know](/english?word=know) *([Fama Intro p.12](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n12))* This is a pun on "Noah".

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
