## 59 - Fifty-Nine
> (prime)

---

### [Havilah](/keys/ChVILH) - חוילה
> The "land" where there is gold [Genesis 2:11](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-11.htm). From the root [Khool](/keys/ChVL), חול, sand ([44](44)), connected with the Phoenix, referring to the mineral Kingdom. Said to be the root of חוילה, "a circle, or district (in man)." see [64](64), [345](345).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"חוילה. Hawilah... Here the root חול, חל or חול, is related to the idea of effort, of tension, or virtual travail, or trial, etc. This root is used as continued facultative, with the emphatic article Heh"* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 79](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/78/mode/2up)]

> *"חול or חיל. Action of suffering from the effects of a violent effort being made upon one s self; action of being twisted, stretched [see skeleton in Key 13], action of being confined, bringing into the world; being carried in thought or action toward an end; producing ideas: action of tending, attending, hoping, placing faith in something; action of disengaging, resolving, dissolving, opening, milking, extracting, etc."* [[Hebrew Tongue Restored p. 351](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/350/mode/2up)]. see [65](65), [571](571), [100](100), [739](739), [259](259).

---

### [goyim](/keys/GVIM) - גוים
> foreigner, heathen; nations. *"In the Name of Adonai shall all the Nations be blessed. We begin with this, because in the Hebrew 'Nations' is 'Goyim' and refers to the Gentiles. The 'Nations' esoterically are the millions and millions of cells not directly concerned with the controlling the functions of the body, as are the more highly specialized cells known as the 12 tribes, for the constitution of the human body is the pattern for the proper constitution of the human society. Just as the gross mechanics of the body furnishes the pattern for all machines based on the laws of mechanics, while the subtler structure of the same body provides the patterns for those inventions which utilize the power of electricity."* [Commentary of the 20th Communication 6/23/47]. see [65](65), [671](671), [100](100), [739](739), [259](259).

---

### [Achim](/keys/AChIM) - אחים
> brethren [referring to Lilith and Samael].

---

### [Ahilud](/keys/AChLIVD) - אחליוד
> "A brother is born". The father of David's recorder, יהושפט [Jehoshaphat](/keys/IHVShPT) ("God has Judged" #[410](410)), [2 Samuel 20:24](http://biblehub.com/2_samuel/20-24.htm): *"And Adorah was over the tribute: and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder."* Note that David means "beloved". see [14](14), [305](305).

---

### [chomah](/keys/ChVMH) - חומה
> wall, city wall, enclosure.

---

### [niddah](/keys/NDH) - נדה
> As a feminine noun, impurity, impure thing; period of menstruation.

---

### [neideh, nedeh](/keys/NDH) - נדה
> gift, wages of prostitution. As a feminine noun: impurity, impure thing, period of menstruation, menstruant woman. The cycles of throwing out the foreign brethren" must be complete before the land of Gold is reached.

---

### [Niddah](/keys/NDH) - נדה
> name of a tractate of the Talmud.

---

### [nuddawh, neiddah](/keys/NDH) - נדה
> to remove, thrust out, to be banished, be excommunicated.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Pereat](/latin?word=Pereat) (Lt)
> "let there consume, destroy, or He shall eat up, devour."

> [Fama Fraternitatis](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/13/mode/2up): *"Our Rota takes her beginning from that day when God spoke Fiat ("Let there be light"), and shall end when he Shall speak Pereat."* see [34](34) (Latin).

---

### [magia adamica](/latin?word=magia+adamica) (Lt)
> adamic magic or the magic of Adam [humanity]. Title of a treatise by Thomas Vaugnan. Subtitles "The Antiquity of Magic and the Descent there of from Adam Downwards Proved". See [29](29), [30](30).

---

### [columba](/latin?word=columba) (Lt)
> dove. a symbol of Venus, and of sexual warmth. see [Key 3](3), #[71](71), [73](73) (Latin). *"In India there is a most pleasant wood, in which two birds are bound together. One is of a snowy white; the other is red. They bite each other, and one is slain and devoured by the other. Then both are changed into white doves, and of the dove is born a phoenix, which has left behind blackness and foul death and has regained a more glorious life. This power was given it by god himself, that it might live eternally, and never die: it gives us wealth, it preserves our life, and with it we may work great miracles, as also the true philosophers do plainly inform us."* The Book of Lambspring in [Hermetic Museum I, 290] Case: Columbia = [59](59) = clavis. see [81](81) (Latin).

---

### [clavis](/latin?word=clavis) (Lt)
> key. A "key", as to a book or cipher.

---

### English Gematria:

- [Queen](/english?word=Queen) *([Fama Intro p.12](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n12/mode/2up))*

### See Also:

- [14](14)
- [5](5)
