## 60 - Sixty
> 3x4x5. Carrington, in The Number Key calls 60 "differential and human order, completeness of character," and the "actualizing of maturity." *[Gematria PFC]*

### [Samekh](/keys/S) - ס
> Once the letter Samekh was interchangeable with the final form of the letter Mem, but after mankind left the Garden of Eden, he mistook temporary shelter for the final letter of the abode of perfection (תם). Because of this error, the arm of the tent peg was bent. [Codex Obligitas, XIV:60]

> The Chaldean character is similar to final Mem. This similarity is more evident in the usual printed character than in the written one. The written character is plainly a modification of the circle, and by some authorities is supposed to represent the serpent swallowing its own tail. Thus it is related to the serpent girdle of the Mahican, and is also connected with the letters Teth and Lamed, both of which refer to the serpent-power. The serpent swallowing its own tail also symbolizes the completion of a cycle of manifestation, and thus the letter Samekh and the Key corresponding to it may be taken as representing the end of a series of manifestations. The series in question is that which begins with the letter [Teth](/keys/T) and [Key 8](8). *[Gematria PFC]*

> This character as consonant belongs to the sibilant sound, and is applied as onomatopoeia to depicting all the sibilant noises... have conceived this letter S, as the symbol of the consonantal principle, in the same manner that they conceibed the letter Heh, or the aspiration H, as that of the vocal principle. This character is, in Heberw, the image of the bow whose cord hisses in the hands of man. As grammatical sign, it is that of circular movement in that which is related to the circumferential limit of any sphere. [Fabre D'Olivet, The Hebrew Tongue Restored?]

### [Bawkheen](/keys/BChN) - בחן
> "Tried by fire" "to try or to test; examine, proved", having special reference to the testing of metals by fire. As a noun בחן means "watch-tower", and with other points "trial, examination, proof". see [186](186). Also:

### [Bokhan](/keys/BChN) - בחן
> "Tested (stone)", testing, examination, to inquire. *[Isaiah 28:16](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/28-16.htm). "Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD, Behold, I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone, a **tried** stone, a precious corner stone, a sure foundation: he that believeth shall not make haste."*" Note: This is not the same word translated "temptation or trial" in the special title of the [path of Samekh](25). The sign attributed to Samekh, belongs to the fiery triplicity. *[Gematria PFC]*

### [Be-khane](/keys/BChN) - בחן
> In grace, by grace, by favor. By taking the ב as the preposition "in", then it will be translated "Grace". It is by Grace that the Metals are tested in [Key 14](14). [Khane](/keys/ChN) is notariqon for [Chokmah Nesethrah](/keys/ChKMH.NSThRH), the Secret Wisdom, i.e. the Qabalah. The mystical trial by fire has to do with initiation into the Qabalah. See [58](58). It is by "grace", the "Grace of God" that the "metal" is tested -- [Key 14](14). The basic idea is testing by rubbing metals on a Touchstone. See [186](186).

B=House Ch=Fence N=Fish. Here we "test" the personality by examining the quality of what grows from it.

### [Gawawn](/keys/GAVN) - גאון
> Sublimity, glory. _Trial by fire makes visible "the Glory of the Heavenly Sun," or "the Gold of thy Beauty." [Book of Tokens, Mem]._ Also rising, swelling (as the waves in water, or hills on land); highness, excellence, majesty, grandeur, glory, exaltation. These meanings are related to the mountain symbolism in [Key 14](/keys/S). Because there is danger that attainment may lead to personal pride, this word signifies also the pride which goes before a fall, and this points toward the kind of test wehreby, as the comment of the path of Samekh says, "The Lord God tests the devout." Until the dross of egotism is purged out, the "Metal" will not meet the trial of friction (rubbing) upon the touchstone of daily contact with others and environmental conditions.

The implication here is that a "golden" personality will leave a trail of gold on everyone who comes into contact with that personality.

### [Makhazeh](/keys/MChZH) - מחזה
> Vision, apparition; drama. "The vision of thy Lord [shall] be granted onto thee" [Book of Tokens, Samekh]. See [310](310), [120](120), [536](536). Also theatrical performance, play.

### [Mechezah](/keys/MChZH) - מחזה
> window, aperture, vista. (A medieval word with the meaning of "vision, apparition" is מחז). *[Gematria PFC]*

M=Waters Ch=Fence Z=Sword H=Window. This is a reference to "harvesting a good crop".

### [Keliy](/keys/KLI) - כלי
> Anything completed, prepared or made. Specifically, vase or vessel. Refers to the secret vessels of alchemy, as symbolized by the vase in [Key 14](14). It contains the "fiery, three-fold water" with which the great work is accomplished. See [800](800), [100](100). Something prepared. Thus, any apparatus or instrument. A ship, just as we speak of a ship as a "vessel". Even dress (of men), and trappings (of animals) are sometimes designated by **כלי**. Also arms and weapons. In short, almost all variants of the idea of aprepared instrument. Also, article, object, thing; utensil; garment; jewel; ornament; implement, tool; weapon, armor. Also attributes by Godwin to the 10th Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 6th quinance (26-30 degrees) of Libra. See [91](91), [1525](1525).

### [Halakah](/keys/HLKH) - הלכה
> Traditional law. Not to be confused with the [Paradosis](666) condemned by Jesus. It is the secret oral tradition. So Qabalists interpret the word. Exoteric Judaism means no more by it than the legalistic "traditions of men" collected in the Talmud. Practice, adopted opinion, rule; tradition (opposed to Aggadah).

### [hinnay](/keys/HNH) - הנה
> behold! "The glory of the Heavenly son shall all men behold." [Book of Tokens] With different vowel points: to give pleasure or benefit, to please.

### [teneh](/keys/TNA) - טנא
> basket (metaphor for prosperity).

### [Hia hayyekaw](/keys/HVA.ChIIK) - הוא חייך
> "She is thy Life." [Proverbs 4:13](http://biblehub.com/text/proverbs/4-13.htm): *"Take fast hold of instruction, let her not go; keep her, for [she is thy life](/keys/HVA.ChIIK)."* see [540](540), [12](12), [18](18).

### [gihebem](/keys/GIHBM) - גיהבם
> Silence; according to Godwin: the seventh and lowest hell, corresponding to the three Supernal Sephiroth. see [620](620).

### [ni](/keys/NI) - ני
> lament, wailing. [Ezekiel 27:32](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/27-32.htm): *"And in their wailing they sall take up a lamentation for thee, and lament over thee, saying, What city is like Tyrus, like the destroyed in the midst of the sea?"*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"Root analogous to the roots נא (youth, newness), נה (young fresh) and נו (aversion, disgust), and the Arabic [word] indicates the state of that which is raw."* [Hebrew Tongue Restored p. 400]

### [chimawh](/keys/CHIMH) - הימה
> fervor, according to Mathers, in [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 10] Not found in scripture or the Hebrew Lexicon.

## Greek/Latin:

### [nitre](/latin?word=nitre) (Lt)
> alchemical term as a stage of salt.

### [Fideus](/latin?word=Fideus) (Lt)
> of faith, faithful. Part of phrase. see [146](146).

### See also

- [6](6)

