## Sixty-One
Prime. (5x5 + 6x6)

---

### [Ain](/keys/AIN) - אין
The First Veil of the Absolute. (noun) nothing; naught; not, no, without; No-Thing; Primal Darkness. (adverb) where? *Where did the universe come from? Where is the universe going to?*. **Prayala** (Hindu), "Night of Brahma."

> The latent state of cosmic night, containing potencies of the supernal triad. Aleph: pure Sprit or creative power, Unity; Yod: the Formative power of Spirit -- the word related to Chokmah; Nun: the reproductive potency of the Cosmic Mother. The absolute as a living mind, the root-source of all substance and energy, protecting, guarding and teaching its manifestations. see [31](31), [538](538), [48](48), [711](711). *[Gematria PFC]*

A=Ox I=Hand N=Fish. **אין** represents perpetual transformation under the breath of light.

---

### [Adon](/keys/ADVN) - אדון
master, lord, possessor. This noun is the root of the Divine Name, Adonai (**אדוני**). [Psalm 97:5](http://biblehub.com/psalms/97-5.htm): *"The hills melted like wax at the presence of the LORD, at the presence of the Lord of the whole earth."*

A=Ox D=Door V=Nail N=Fish. **אדון** is someone who has been appointed to sow and reap a particular field.

> However negative may be our ideas of the No-Thing **(אין)** it is the master power, containing all other potencies within itself. The ancient Semitic root appears in the Greek Adonis, the name of the God the Greeks borrowed from Babylonian and Phoenician Mysteries of Tammuz. see [65](65), [207](207), [1065](1065).

---

### [Alika](/keys/ALIK) - אליך
To thee, toward thee. [Genesis 43:9](http://biblehub.com/genesis/43-9.htm): *"if I bring him not **unto thee,** and set him before thee, then let me bear the blame for ever."*

> Farther expresses the idea of motion away from an observer. "Toward thee" expresses the idea of motion toward an observer. In relation to **אין**, however remote the No-Thing may seem, it is omnipresent, nearer than anything else. Man's yearning and striving toward the Infinite is a reaction to the One's earlier movement toward the heart of man. one familiar phrasing of this idea is, "Behold, I stand at the door and knock."

A=Ox L=Ox-Goad I=Hand K=Grasp. This is the idea of picking up the ox-goad with the intention of driving the personality toward union with the Self.

---

### [Ammeka](/keys/AMK) - אמך 
> Thy mother. [Exodus 20:12](http://biblehub.com/exodus/20-12.htm): *"Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee."*

> The commandment "Honor thy mother" is that the human, earthly mother is a symbol and visible representation of the protective, nourishing power of [Ain](/keys/AIN). For all that is the perfection of feminine and masculine potencies must be ascribed to the No-Thing.

> *"Yet she is also **אמך**, [Ameka](/keys/AMK), thy Mother, and her heart swelleth with love. For behold **אמך**: is it not 61, and this is **בטן**, [beten](/keys/BTN), the dark womb of creation? And again, it is **אין**, [Ain](/keys/AIN), the Boundless, for there are no limits to the overflowing love, springing like a fountain of Living Waters from the heart of the Mother."*

> *"Comment: Binah is identified with Ameka, thy Mother, and immediately this is indicated as being the same as the first Veil of **אין**, and as the vast expanse of the dark nothingness which is the womb of creation. Yet the Text is all the while dealing also with Saturn, and with the Path of Tav, and so with the idea of the eternal equilibrium or perfect rest at the center. Moreover, that rest is by clear implication identified with the Waters of Life... in [Key 21](/keys/Th), if you look intently, you may see delineated in plain sight representation of the idea expressed in Hebrew as the word **אין,** which is both **בטן** and **אמך.**"* [Qabalistic Text and Commentary, 32nd communication 2/9/48]

A=Ox M=Waters K=Grasp. This suggests the act of drinking. "Thy mother" is of course the vessel which brought you into this world. In [Key 17](/keys/Tz), this is the vessel which waters the green grass on the shore of the pool.

---

### [Ani](/keys/ANI) - אני
> I, myself. First person, singular pronoun. There is only one Real Self in the universe. Understood "I" as being essentially identical with that Self, and is the fullness of all being -- yet also the **אין**, because it goes beyond every limitation of Things. see [92](92), [1525](1525)

A=Ox N=Fish I=Hand. My aspiration shines into this changing world like a lantern.

---

### [Ayilak](/keys/AILK) - אילך
> farther, further, hither, thither, afterwards. [Sepher Yetzirah 4:16] Increased distance, or lengthened spatial relation (farther), and also fo going beyond previous performance or attainment, the ocnception of transcendence (further). It serves also to remind us that **אין**, the First Veil, designates something beyond the range of intellectual definition or perception. Compare these ideas with the symbolism of the Fool, which corresponds to **אין.**

A=Ox I=Hand L=Ox-Goad K=Grasp. This suggests "The carrot and the stick", first petting the ox, then firmly grasping the corrective ox-goad. It is through the wise self-direction from the One Life that we advance to higher and further attainments.

---

### [Beten](/keys/BTN) - בטן
> belly, stomach, womb, the inmost part. It refers to the fruitfulness and power of growth which are inseparable from any true notion of the nature of the One Reality. The "great womb" of the No-Thing is the same as the **Mulaprakriti,** or root matter, of Hindu philosophy. It is also that which is inmost in the life of man. Wherever we are, there It is also, with all its limitless supply for every human need. It also suggests that our sense of being in the physical body is largely due to the visceral sensation.

B=House T=Serpent N=Fish. This suggests the vagina as a vessel for sperm. This is the feminine counterpart to **אין**

---

### [Hawlok](/keys/HLVK) - הלוך
> Walking. The root idea is "a series of steps." Walking is the human function which *The Book of Formation* associates with the letter Nun and Key 13. The Fool is shown in the act of walking, with one more step ahead of him before he comes to the edge of the precipice. However free from action the Absolute may appear to be, it is Itself the very essence of progress and advancement. it is dynamic being-in-action. It is the Primal Will craving urge (1), towards the production of beautiful results (6). We have difficulty with the idea of a moving Absolute, because motion seems to be the contradiction of all that "Absolute" means. *[Gematria PFC]*

H=Window L=Ox-Goad V=Nail K=Grasp. This is reminiscent of a horse-shoe, which allows a beast of burden to walk farther and longer. It also reminds me of a bridle, which directs the head of a horse, and therfore, its vision, and therefore, its movement.

> "Forever it moves and acts, without design." (Lao-tze).

---

### [Ha-Yom](/keys/HIVM) - היום
This day. [Deuteronomy 9:1](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/9-1.htm): *"Hear, O Israel: Thou art to pass over Jordan this day, to go in to possess nations greater and mightier than thyself, cities great and fenced up to heaven."*

> One of the worst delusions is that we are somehow separated from the **אין,** Ain. Our speech betrays us. The wise live out "this day" with smiling hearts. For the Ain is beyond time, just as certainly as it is free from other restrictions. ALL that it is, it is NOW.

H=Window I=Hand V=Nail M=Waters. Vision is what binds us to this moment.

---

### [Hone](/keys/HVN) - הון
> Wealth, riches, capital, substance. As an adverb: enough. From a root which means: to be empty; to gain by effort. The nature of effort has been perfectly expressed by the admonition: "Having emptied yourself, remain where you are." Our true wealth is within us -- the Ain is the true basis of all material possessions. Letter by letter it signifies: Vision (Heh), intuition and the power of correlation (Vav) and imagination (Nun), are the basis of creative power. See [711](711).

H=Window V=Nail N=Fish. What we can see is also the food which nourishes us. This is a reference also to the "multiplying of the fishes" miracle performed by Jesus.

---

### [Nagakh](/keys/NGCh) - נגח
> To thrust, or push, as with the horns of an animal, to butt. Figuratively: "to make war." **Ain** as the inexhaustible source of a dynamic energy which thrusts itself into manifestation forcibly, and in so doing becomes the adversary of inertia.

N=Fish G=Camel Ch=Field. This sequence describes the impregnation of subconsciousness with the seed-idea of who we desire to become.

---

### [Navah](/keys/NVH) - נוה
> To abide, to dwell; as a noun (Naveh): home, habitation. The Ain is our dwelling place. In it we live, and move, and have our being. To experience it is to realize that th Ain is our home, a haven of refuge and a place of safety. As an adjective: same pointing, beautiful, comely, dwelling, abiding. Rosenroth [K.D.L.C.K. p564] gives: "it is Malkuth, which receives Tiphareth into itself."

N=Fish V=Nail H=Window. The reflection of Hone, **הון**, we are now talking about the kundalini energy making its habitation in our sight center, giving us permanent divine vision through the open eye of Ayin.

---

### [Damabiah](/keys/DMBIH) - דמביה
> "God, Fountain of Wisdom." 65th Shemhamphorash; angel of 10 of Swords. 321°-325° PIEBION-Moon. May 23, August 5, October 14, December 25, March 7. 9:20-9:40

> [Psalm 90:13](http://biblehub.com/psalms/90-13.htm). Against sorcery, and to obtain wisdom and the success of useful enterprises. Rules the seas, rivers, springs, maritime expeditions, and naval constructions. Influences sailors, pilots, i.e. ?PCHE?, and all those engage in commerce.

> Person born: distinguishes himself at sea by his expeditions and discoveries, and amasses a considerable fortune. Godwin gives: Angel of the 5th quinance (21°-25°) of Gemini; angel by day of the 10 of Swords. This represents the operation of Malkuth; sphere of the elements, in Yetzirah, the World of Formation. Davidson adds that Damabiah is an angel of the Order of Angels. see 965, 1525, 46.

---

### [Zagan](/keys/ZAGN) - זאגן
> Gothic demon by night of the 1st decanate of Sagittarius. The name of the demon suggest the power of separation (ז), unregulated energy (א), psychic reflection of negative patterns (ג), in reproductive error (ן).

> This decanate, ruled by Jupiter suggest subconscious imbalance, resulting in negative aspects of theses qualities, including deep depression. This decanate also corresponds to the 8 of Wands in the Tarot minor arcana, which is the operations of Hod, the lower mind, in Atziluth, the archetypal plane. When negatively aspected, as here, this can indicate violence, warfare; rapacity, insolence; theft or robbery, suggesting by some of the evil meanings connected with Hermes or Mercury, associated with misuse of human intellect. For more on this word, see [711](711).

---

### [Yiaial](/keys/IIIAL) - יייאל
> [Psalm 121:5](http://biblehub.com/psalms/121-5.htm). Godwin gives: Yeyayel; angel of the 4th quinance (16°-20°) of Scorpio; angel my night of the 6 of Cups. This represent the influence of Tiphareth; sphere of the Sun or Central Ego, in Briah, the World of Creation. Davidson adds that Ieiaiel is an angel of the Future, sharing the office with Teiaiel. [Dictionary of Angels, p.148]

---

## Latin/Greek:

---

### [Materia](/latin?word=Materia) (Lt)
> matter, substance. This extends the conceptions we have been considering in relation to **[אמך](/keys/AMK)** and **[בטן](/keys/BTN).** We must constantly readjust our conception of substance. We must continually rid ourselves of the false notion that power and wealth are to b sought in the accumulation of things. The worlds's failures may be traced to belief in external things and to dependence on them. They never fail who rest secure in their reliance on the Ain.

---

### [Magnum](/latin?word=Magnum) (Lt)
> Great. Refers to the Great Work. see [124](124)

---

### [Artis](/latin?word=Artis) (Lt)
> of the Art. This is the art of alchemy, which transforms the dross of personality into the Gold of union with the Higher Self. see [314 Lt](314)

---

### [Coelum](/latin?word=Coelum) (Lt)
> Heaven. The abode of Spirit, source of matter.

---

### [Terrae](/latin?word=Terrae) (Lt)
> Of Earth. The vessel fo Spirit is every form of "earth," or the physical plane. See [56](56).

---

### English Gematria:

- [Carthage](/english?word=Carthage) *([Fama Intro p.12](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n12/mode/2up))* ([Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carthage))

### See Also:

- [7](7)
- [16](16)
