## 62 - Sixty-Two
[2](2)x[31](31).

---

### [Bin](/keys/BIN) - בין
> to distinguish, to separate mentally, to understand, discern, know, perceive. The root of [Binah](/keys/BINH) [בינה], understanding, which is the finitizing principle (see [67](67)).

Also: בין - between, from. [Genesis 1:4](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-4.htm): *"And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness."*

---

### [Bawlal](/keys/BLL) - בלל
> to overflow; to mingle, mix. Note that to mix, mixture is equivalent to the old sense of temperance, the title of [Key 14](14). Also that this word: אסא [healing](/keys/ASA) and זנה [adultery](/keys/ZNH), false mixture. Other meanings: to confuse, confound; to mix fodder; to stir, knead.

---

### [zawnaw](/keys/ZNH) - זנה
> false mixture; to commit fornication, be a harlot, figuratively, to go after strange gods. Also: זנה to commit fornication; זנה: to be committed (fornication)

---

### [beni](/keys/BNI) - בני
> the sons. Temperance purifies the sons (and daughters) of God. see [52](52), [898](898)

---

### [Mebaiah](/keys/MBHIH) - מבהיה
> "God Eternal." 55th Shemhamphorash 271°-275°. SMAT, Jupiter. May 13, July 24, October 4, December 15, February 25. 6:00-6:20 PM. [Psalm 102:12](http://biblehub.com/psalms/102-12.htm): *"But thou O Lord, shalt endure forever; and thy remembrance unto all generations."*

> To receive consolation, and for those who desire to have children. Rules morals and religion, influences those whom it protects in all their endeavors, and prospers their undertakings through all possible means. Persons born: distinguishes by his good deeds, his piety, and by his zeal to full his [duty] toward God and men. see [965](965), [1525](1525).

---

### [vavim](/keys/VVIM) - ווים
> "hooks", pegs, nails. Used in the construction of the veil of the Holy of holies, in the Hebrew Tabernacle. [Exodus 38:28](http://biblehub.com/exodus/38-28.htm): *"And of the thousand seven hundred and seventy-five shekels he made hooks for the pillars, and overlaid their capitals, and overlaid the hooks with silver."* see [12](12), [1775](1775) = palace of the body of heaven, i.e. [Netzach](/keys/NTzCh), sphere of Venus.

---

### [niyb](/keys/NIB) - ניב
> produce, fruit. [Malachi 1:12](http://biblehub.com/malachi/1-12.htm): *"But you are profaning it, [i.e. the Lord's name] in that you say, the table of the Lord is polluted and its food (fruit) is contemptible."*

> Also in [Isaiah 87:19](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/87-19.htm): *"I create the fruit of the lips [i.e. speech); peace, peace to those who are afar off and to those who are near, says the Lord; and I will heal them."*

---

### [hown](/keys/HAVN) - האון
> Ability, vigor.

---

### [vakool](/keys/VKVL) - וכול
> hold.

---

### [bhinnay](/keys/BHNH) - בהנה
> behold.

---

### [bamakhazeh](/keys/BMChZH) - במחזה
> in the vision of the Lord.

---

### [tov-meod](/keys/TVB.MAD) - טוב מאד
> very good.

---

### [Beth/Samekh](/keys/B.S) - ב ס
> Mercury in Sagittarius.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [post](/latin?word=post) (Lt)
> after. following the discoveries, one becomes an illumined brother. Part of a phrase in Secret symbols. see [717](717).

---

### [sophia](/latin?word=sophia) (Lt)
> wisdom. From Greek [Greek word]. see [781](781) (Gr.), [73](73)

---

### [chalybs](/latin?word=chalybs) (Lt)
> steel. *"Our chalybs is the true key of our art, without which the torch would in no wise be kindled, and as the true magi have delivered many things concerning it, so among vulgar alchemists there is great contention as to its nature. It is the ore of gold, the purest of all spirits; a secret, infernal, and yet most volatile fire, the wonders of the world... as steel is attracted to the magnet, and the magnet turns toward the steel, so also our magnet attracts our chalybs. Thus, as chalybs is the ore of Gold, so abounds in salt, which salt is the menstruum in the sphere of the Moon, and can calcine gold. This center turns toward the pole with anarchetic appetite, in which the virtue of chalybs is exalted by degrees..."* [Hermetic Museum II, pp.. 166-167]. Case: chalybs = [62](62) = Sophia.

---

### [valles](/latin?word=valles) (Lt)
> a valley or vale; use in Rosicrucian and alchemy to designate the field of the great work. Compare this with the various details of Tarot symbolism which show the great work as being carried on, and especially as beginning, at the level of self-conscious awareness. Note that in Key 0, the Fool (Alephspirit) is descending into the valley of manifestation. see [45](45) (Lt).

---

### [frater](/latin?word=frater) (Lt)
> Brother. The "brethren" are spiritual related through the Heart (see [701](701), [246](246)).

---

### [intacta](/latin?word=intacta) (Lt)
> Untouched. Part of a motto found on the tomb of Brother CR (see [136](136) Latin).

---

### [Inditia](/latin?word=Inditia) (Lt)
poverty; sterility; unprofitability; plainness. [in + ditia](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=inditia).

> *"He therefore conferred with the learned in Spain, shewing unto them the errors of our arts, and how they might be corrected and from whence they should gather the true **Inditia** of the times to come, and wherein they ought to agree with those things that are past;"* [[Fama Fraternitatis](https://archive.org/stream/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985#page/n17)]

---

### English Gematria:

- [absurd](/english?word=absurd) *([Fama Intro p.14](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n14))*

---

### See Also:

- [8](8)
