## 63 - Sixty-Three
> (3x3x7)

### [he-khane](/keys/HChN) - החן
> the grace.

### [Kabode-AL](/keys/KBVD-AL) - כבוד־אל
> the Glory of God. Spirit resides in all manifested form, yet it takes selfconscious work to recognize this.

> > *"Remember now that the Glory is the Kabode-El, for God is One and alone and there is nothing else, as saith Isaiah. Al is [31](31), and KBVD is [32](32), so that כבוד־אל is 63. Here you may be searching find much treasure. First, 63 is 9 times 7. Among the Sephiroth, this is the multiplication of Victory by the power of the Foundation. Among the letters it is the multiplication of Zain by the power of Teth.*

> > *Nor are these in any measure different, for what is the Victory if it be not that of the Sword of Understanding, and what is the Foundation, if it be not a power of the Royal Serpent? Here, indeed, may you find a rich treasure, and the text points straight at it.*

> > *We shall not now give you more than this one hint. As students familiar with our Rota, note well the words of the text concerning 63 as the multiplication of Zain by Teth. Do not forget that the path of [Zain](/keys/ZIN) links [Binah](/keys/BINH) to [Tiphareth](/keys/ThPARTh), and that זין is [67](67), as is בינה. Right disposition is rooted in Understanding, and this is the sharp sword of discrimination, for there is no love without understanding, and love must be discriminating in the good and constructive sense of this word. But note that Zain as 7 must be multiplied by Teth as 9 to make the 63 of כבוד־אל, and though Teth is the serpent-power, the Rota pictures that power as a red lion, tamed by a woman who represents the feminine aspect of Chesed. Every Sephirah, you remember, is both male and female. Female, as receiving the descending influence. Male as projecting it to whatever paths are below, and this feminine Chesed is pictured as being like the Empress. For the taming of the lion and the serpent, these two being really identical, is woman's work even as it is written in the writings of the Sons of Hermes. If you have ears to hear, this shall be for you a practical revelation of the Great Arcanum."* [23rd Communication] see [32](32), [67](67), [73](73), [833](833), [124](124), [419](419), [430](430)

> The Zohar [Prologue: 8a, pp. 33-34] adds: *"'The glory of EL' (God) signifies glory of [CHECK FOR MISSING TEXT] the bride which is called EL, as it is written 'and EL hath indignation every day' [Psalm 8:12](http://biblehub.com/psalms/8-12.htm); all the days of the year it is called EL, signifying glory on glory, splendor on splendor, and dominion on dominion. Thus at the time when heaven enters into the canopy and irradiates her, all those companions who joined in her adornment have their names recorded there above, as it is written, 'and the firmament showeth his handiwork..' the words 'his handiwork' being an allusion to those who have entered into a covenant with the bride."*

### [aybadon](/keys/ABDVN) - אבדון
> destruction [Proverbs 15:11](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/15-11.htm): *"Sheol (Death) [the place of the dead] and Abaddon (destruction) [the abyss, the final place of the accuser Satan] both are before the Lord; how much more the hearts of the children of men? (Amplified)"*

> Godwin gives: angle of the bottomless pit [in Revelation]. Davidson adds: *"According to Mathers, The Greater Key of Solomon, Abaddon is a name for God that Moses invoked to bring down the blighting rain over Egypt. The Qabbalist Joseph Ben Abraham Gikatilla denominates Abaddon as the 6th Lodge of the seven lodges of Hell (Arka), under the presidency of the Angel Pasiel.. Abaddon has also been identified as the angel of death and destruction, demon of the abyss, and chief of the demons of the underworld hierarchy, where he is equated with Samael or Satan."* [Dictionary of Angels, pp. 1-2] see [12](12)

### [va-bawnaw](/keys/VBNH) - ובנה
> and establishes.

### [boneh](/keys/BVNH) - בונה
> builder, founder. All building or creation takes place with the letter Heh (the vision of the prophet) and is accomplished by division (Zain, the Sword) from the unity of the whole. see [68](68).

### [zawn](/keys/ZVN) - זון
> to feed, nourish. The substance or water of creation nourishes all things.

### [gawlahl](/keys/GLL) - גלל
> to roll, roll off, roll away, remove; to roll up a scroll. The scroll is that of memory, which is rolled up upon completion of the creative process.

### [sawbawa](/keys/SBA) - סבא
> old, aged; ancestor; grandfather; elder. The racememory is connected with these. see [189](189), [604](604).

### [nawchah](/keys/NChH) - סבא 
> to guide or lead; to bring [Exodus 23:34](http://biblehub.com/exodus/23-34.htm): *"But go now, lead the people where I told you. Behold, My angel shall go before you; nevertheless in the day when I punish, I will punish them for their sin."*

### [seg](/keys/SG) - סג
> According to Fabre D'Olivet: *"סג. The circumferential sign united to the organic sign, constitutes a root whose purpose is to depict the effect of the circumferential line opening more and more, and departing from the center: Thence סג all ideas of extension, augmentation, growth: physical possibility."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 06]

### [Dagon](/keys/DGVN) - דגון
> A fish-god of the Philistines. [1 Samuel 5:1](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/5-1.htm): *"After the Philistines had captured the Ark of God, they took it from Ebenezer to Ashdod. ([2](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/5-2.htm)) Then they carried the Ark into Dagon's Temple, and set it beside Dagon."* see [713](713), note.

### [nevie](/keys/NBIA) - נביא
> "prophet". [Exodus 7:1](http://biblehub.com/exodus/7-1.htm): *"Then the Lord said to Moses, 'see I have made you like God to Pharaoh, and your brother Aaron will be your prophet."* One who foretells future events, or who speaks for God.

## Greek/Latin

### [opus](/latin?word=opus) (Lt)
> Work. Refers of the alchemical great Work. see [124](124), [61](61).

### [Magnesia](/latin?word=Magnesia) (Lt)
> the first Matter.

### [electio](/latin?word=electio) (Lt)
[choice](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=electio), selection; election; E:election to salvation (Ecc);

> *"The will of man divides itself similarly into seven powers... The sixth is that of choice or resolution actually taken--**electio**"* {[Karl von Eckartshausen, The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary, letter VI](cloud-upon-sanctuary)}

### See Also:

- [9](9)
