
## 64 - Sixty-Four
> (8x8)

### [Deen](/keys/DIN) - דין
> Justice, the highest name for the [5th Sephirah](5), [Geburah](/keys/GBVRH). It is the square of 8, the special number of the Sephirah Hod, and of the letter Cheth, which is the channel carrying the influence from Binah down to Geburah. The wise see meaning and purpose in the reign of divine law. In human personality are summed up all the forces and laws of the universe. Man is the instrument through which the Life-power brings the Great Work to completion, symbolized by the pentagram, one of the geometrical correspondences to the number 5 and Geburah. see [92](92), [216](216), [95](95), [297](297), [850](850).

### [Doni](/keys/DNI) - דני
> a twin intelligences of Gemini. According to Godwin, דני [Dani](/keys/DNI), the 50th name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 2nd quinance (6°-10°) of Aries. see [95](95), [1525](1525).

### [anakhah](/keys/ANChH) - אנחה
> a sigh, a groan, a deep breathing. The deeper meaning refers to the exercises of volition and of the practice of deep breathing, which is part of the practical technique of every Greater Adept. Superficially, emotional reactions to those who do not understand Divine Justice.

### [Nogah](/keys/NVGH) - נוגה
> The sphere of Venus. [Netzach](/keys/NTzCh) on the Tree. External splendor. see [58](58), [148](148), [K.V., p. 57]

### [Adam/Havvah](/keys/ADM.ChVH) - אדם חוה
> Adam and Eve. A Qabalistic verbal symbol for all humanity. "The form of man, says the Rabbi Benjohai [Zohar I: 191, III:144], contains all that is in heaven and earth-no form, no world could exist before the human prototype (1); for all things subsist by and in it: without it there would be no world, and in this sense we are to understand these words, The Eternal has founded the earth upon his Wisdom."

> (1): Paul Case: Because אדם, [Adam](/keys/ADM) = [45](45) = [9](9) [Yesod, Foundation] and אדם חוה, [Adam/Havvah](/keys/ADM-ChVh) = [45](45) + [19](19) = [64](64), αληθεια, truth. [A Subjective Inquiry into Alchemy; Atwood p. 173] see [45](45), [19](19), [70](70)

### [ve-ha-ehben](/keys/VHABN) - והאבן
> "and this stone". [Genesis 28:22](http://biblehub.com/genesis/28-22.htm). Refers to the Stone of Bethel, which tradition identifies with the "crowning stone" now in Westminster Abbey. The letters of והאבן form הוא בן, and read [Hu Ben](/keys/HVA.BN) to indicate that Hu (Kether) and Ben (Tiphareth) are united in the mysterious אבן, [Ehben](/keys/ABN), Stone. This "Stone" is the Lapis Philosophorum, or Mercurius de Mercurio. הוא בן, moreover, may be read: "He (is) the Son (or "Stone")." see [216](216).

### [may zahab](/keys/MI.ZHB) - מי זהב
> mazahab. "Water of Gold", "Golden Waters". Concerning which there is much in the works of Alchemist. In [Genesis 30:39](http://biblehub.com/genesis/30-39.htm), this name appears as two words. Mother of Matred and Grandmother of Mehetabel. The first two letters refer to Mercury (MI). [I.R.Q. 996] see [50](50)

> The Aesh Mezareph [VII, pp. 39-40] speaking of alchemical Silver says: *"This wife (or female) is also called mezahab, the Waters of Gold, or such a water as sends forth Gold. If the artist be betrothed to her, he will beget a daughter, who will be the water of the royal bath. Although some would have this bride to be the waters that are made out of Gold; which bride (not-withstanding) poor men leave to be espoused by great men."* see also [IRQ:996]

### [Mazahab](/keys/MIZHB) - מיזהב
> the mother of Matred; mother of gold.

### [noah](/keys/NVCh) - נוח
> to include, lie down, rest. The proper name Noah (variant spelling). see [58](58). Also rest, quiet, resting place [Esther 9:16](http://biblehub.com/esther/9-16.htm). As an adjective: pleasing, kind, easy, benign.

### [nahtah](/keys/NTH) - נטה
> to expand, to extend, stretch out. In [Isaiah 44:13](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/44-13.htm): *"The carpenter selects a piece of wood, and stretches out his rule; he marks it out with a line; he fashions it with planes and makes it into the likeness of man, according to the beauty of man."*

### [sahbab](/keys/SBB) - סבב
> to revolve, turn, surround.

### [ha-goyim](/keys/HGVIM) - הגוים
> the nations (Hosts), the gentiles. Hence all of unredeemed humanity (Adam) who are not yet part of spiritual Israel.

### [hahgun](/keys/HGVN) - הגון
> Worthy, respectable, suitable, proper. A Rabbinical word. It implies, as does the English "worthy", that what it describes is equal in value to something else, has been weighted and not found wanting, is rightly adjusted to use. Compare theses ideas to [Key 11](11).

### [ha-Havilah](/keys/HChVILH) - החוילה
> Havilah. Name of a land (where gold is). [Genesis 2:11](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-11.htm): *"it winds through the entire land of Havilah, where there is gold"*. see [59](59), [44](44), [345](345).

### [navuah](/keys/NBVAH) - נבואה
> prophecy, prediction.

### [hu/ben](/keys/HVA-BN) - הוא בן
> Hu -- Kether and Ben, the Son. He [is] the Son [Mark 1:11](http://biblehub.com/mark/1-11.htm).

### [yakhum](/keys/IChVM) - יחום
> sexual excitation; poetical name for Son יחום, a medieval word. Compare with פחד, [pachad](/keys/PChD), "Thigh" ([92](92)) and פחדים, [pachadim](/keys/PChDIM) meaning gonads, testicles, [142](142). Both these words are part of the Gematria of Geburah.

### [yadim](/keys/IDIM) - ידים
> hands.

### [Yediyd IHVH](/keys/IDID.IHVH) - ידיד יהוה
> Beloved of God. [Deuteronomy 33:12](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/33-12.htm); [John 13:23](http://biblehub.com/john/13-23.htm).

### [midi](/keys/MIDI) - מידי
> from my hand.

### [gonah](/keys/GVNH) - גונה
> serenity, according to Godwin. The state of inner peace.

### [sad](/keys/SD) - סד
> stocks (for the feet of a culprit). In [Job 13:27](http://biblehub.com/job/13-27.htm): *"You fasten my feet in shackles; you keep close watch on my paths by putting marks on the soles of my feet."*

### [Chivim](/keys/ChVIM) - חוים
> Hivites. A petty tribe of Canaan, conquered by the Israelites; a term used to indicate tent-dwellers. Inman Gives: "Villagers," and cites [Genesis 10:17](http://biblehub.com/genesis/10-17.htm): "Hivites, Arkites, Sinites."

> Fabre D'Olivet renders the singular form: "Bestial Life." He comments: *"The absolute verb חוה, receiving the sign of potential manifestation in place of the convertible sign, becomes the symbol of universal life היה: But if the first character of this important word degenerates, and is changed into that of elementary existence, it express in היה only natural, animal, bestial life: the symbol of absolute material life in עיה."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 288]

## Greek/Latin:

### [aletheia](/greek?word=alhtheia) (Gr) - αληθεια
> truth. Literally: "Not forgetting." Suggests perfect memory. The magician opposes reality to appearance, fact to fancy, order to disorder. "Ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free." For that which is at once liberation and preservation is the understanding and living of truth.

### [genea](/greek?word=genea) (Gr) - γενεα
> Birth, race, descent; a generation, offspring, age, period, time, nation.

### [dictum](/latin?word=dictum) (Lt)
> a saying; a prediction, a prophecy; an order, a command. The Perfect Law is at once a prophecy and a command.

### [domus](/latin?word=domus) (Lt)
> abode, dwelling, home, house. The Divine Justice is our true abiding place.

### [sal aqua](/latin?word=sal+aqua) (Lt)
> salt water (SECRET SYMBOLS, page 30). Sal Aqua is called also Matrix Corpus, matrix of the body. The correspondence is to Geburah as the Sphere of Mars. see [674](674), [82](82), [156](156).

### [salus](/latin?word=salus) (Lt)
> health, well-being, prosperity, deliverance, preservation.

### [solve](/latin?word=solve) (Lt)
> dissolve. The first of two alchemical admonitions. The other is coagula, coagulate. Dissolution comes first. We must remember that the use of creative imagination is concerned with the breaking down of old forms and habits as well as the building up of new ones. You cannot become the New Creature and remain as you are. There is a relation between the highest functions of Geburah and alchemical dissolution.

### [sperma](/latin?word=sperma) (Lt)
> seed. The whole alchemical work has to do with the "seed of metals." The "metals" are the inner centers of the body, the stars or chakras. The power which works through them is the "seed". The Mars energy can bring the 7 psychic centers (metals) into conscious activity. Human beings are sometimes called "metals" by the alchemists. On the same page of THE SECRET SYMBOLS where we find sal aqua, we read "Semen Spiriti Sancti," and, in the Latin of the Rosicrucians, semen and sperma are interchangeable terms (ex semen spiriti sancti). see [50](50) (Latin), [146](146), [210](210), [199](199) (Latin).

### [Virgo](/latin?word=Virgo) (Lt)
> A Virgin. Name of the zodiacal sign Virgo, symbolized in Tarot by [Key 9](9), the Hermit, and by the letter Yod. see [10](10), [20](20), [515](515) (Greek).

### [Paragon](/latin?word=Paragon) (Lt)
> Webster: to compare; to parallel; a mold or pattern. "The true philosophers are far of another mind, esteeming little the making of [physical] Gold, which is but a paragon, for besides that they have a thousand better things..." [R.C. Allegory, p. 7].

### [Gradus](/latin?word=Gradus) (Lt)
> Step, grade. Implies a level of consciousness, Part of a Latin Phrase. see [166](166).

### [Anima media](/latin?word=Anima+media) (Lt)
> middle spirit. "...figured by the Tree of Knowledge... the only medicine to repair the decays of the natural man..." [Thomas Vaughan].

### See Also:

- [10](10)