## 65 - Sixty-Five
> (5x13). The number of the units of the pentagon when the length of the
sides are 13 units each.

### [Adonai](/keys/ADNI) - אדני
> Lord. Divine Name for Malkuth, attributed to the element [earth](/keys/ARTz), ארץ. The Haikal, or temple, is for human personality the physical body, and that body is formed from the earth, or physical manifestation of the Life-power's spiritual energy taking form as the "matter" constituting man's body in his physical environment. All activities of man are carried on within the being and body of Adonai.

### [Deodayim](/keys/DVDAIM) - דודאים
> Mandrake. [Genesis 30:14](http://biblehub.com/genesis/30-14.htm): *"And Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest, and found Mandrakes in the field, and brought them unto his mother Leah. Then Rachel said to Leah, give me, I pray thee, of thy son s Mandrakes."*

> [Hermetic Museum I. p. 57]: *"As I foundered in my mind the marvels of the most high, and the duty of fervent love to our neighbors, which he laid upon us; I remembered the wheat of harvest, when [Reuben](/keys/RAUBN) the son of Leah, found דודאים [Dudaim](/keys/DVDAIM) in the field, which Leah gave to Rachel for the love of the Patriarch Jacob."*

> Paul Case: דודאים [Deodayim](/keys/DVDAIM) = 65 = אדני [Adonai](/keys/ADNI) = היכל [Haikel](/keys/HIKL). [Haikel](/keys/HIKL), according to Sepher Yetzirah, is in the midst. Note that דודאים, mandrakes, are aphrodisiac. The same root is found in דוד = זהב, Gold. see Aesch Metzareph and Genesis 30:14.

### [Kawmah](/keys/KMH) - כמה
> Cama or Kama; "to pine, or long for." This is the name of the ?Hindu? God of love, or desire." [Inman].

### [haikel](/keys/HIKL) - היכל
> temple, palace. Meeting place for the Shekinah. The Zohar [Prologue 3B, pp. 13-14] adds: *"The holy and mysterious one ?carved? in a hidden recess one point. In that he enclosed the whole of creation as one who locks up all his treasures in a palace, under one key, which is therefore as valuable as all that is stored up in that palace; for it is the key which shuts and opens. In that palace there are hidden treasures, one greater than the other. The palace is provided with fifty mystic gates. They are inserted in its four sides to the number of 49. The one remaining gate is on none of its sides and it is unknown whether it is on high or below: it is hence called the mysterious gate. All these gates have one lock, and there is one tiny spot for the insertion of the key, which is only marked by the impress of the key. It is this mystery which is implied in the words in the beginning created God."*

> *"היכל = 65. It is "in the midst" according to Sepher Yetzirah -- the interior center (Tav). the divine essence = אין = אני. היכל may be read ה י כל = The Yod All. The Yod is the point of concentration. "Light" and there was Light. These words imply that there had already been Light. This word אור (light), contains in itself a hidden significance. The expansive force proceeding from the hidden recesses of this secret supernal ether opened a path and produced from itself a mysterious point (or, rather, the [Ain Suph](/keys/AIN.SVP) (limitless) clave its own ether and disclosed this point), Yod."* [Zohar I: 16B, p.69]

### [haws](/keys/HS) - הס
> hush! keep silence. In [Habbakuk 2:20](http://biblehub.com/habbakuk/2-20.htm): *"The Lord (IHVH) is in his holy temple היכל, let all the earth ארץ keep silence before him."* see [671](671).

> Fabre D'Olivet writes: *"הס. Onomatopoetic and idiomatic root which depicts silence. The Arabic [word] seems to indicate a sort of dull murmur, as when a herd grazes in the calm of night."* [Hebrew Tongue Restored p. 332]

### [dumiah](/keys/DVMIH) - דומיה
> silence, quietness; the 4th occult maxim (to keep silent). Hence: trusting in silence, hoping, waiting. [Psalm 62:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/62-1.htm): *"Truly my soul trust God in silence; my salvation comes from him."*

### [gam yakhad](/keys/GM.IChD) - גם יחד
> "together in unity," [Psalm 133:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/133-1.htm). Important in Masonry. see [2](2), [13](13), [22](22), [1169](1169).

### [hallel](/keys/HLL) - הלל
> to shine, glory, praise, to commend, sign praises, Thanksgiving. Psalms 113-118 recited by the Hebrews on new moon and festivals. Also: הלל: to shine, to be boastful, foolish. Mathers [K.V. Introduction 66] writes: *"אדני is the queen by whom alone Tetragrammaton can be grasped, whose exaction into Binah is found in the Christian assumption of the virgin."* see [52](52).

### [melozah](/keys/MZVZH) - מזוזה
> door post. A rolled up piece of parchment containing [Deuteronomy 6:4-9](http://biblehub.com/niv/deuteronomy/6.htm) and [Deuteronomy 11:13-17](http://biblehub.com/niv/deuteronomy/11.htm) fixed on the door post.

### [makkah](/keys/MKH) - מכה
> stroke, wound, beating, blow; plague, defeat (in war).also: מכה, to deal one a heavy blow. Indicates misuse of the physical plane.

### [Sah](/keys/SH) - סה
> ROOT: that which is round in form; dome, moon.

### [Lelah](/keys/LLH) - ללה
> 6th name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 6th (26°-30°) quinance of Leo. see [96](96), [1525](1525).

### [niehiy](/keys/NHI) - נהי
> wailing, lament, mourning-song. Notariqon for נצח הוד יסוד or [Netzach, Hod, Yesod](/keys/NTzCh.HVD.ISVD). [K.D.L.C.K. p. 563]

### [auchim](/keys/AVChIM) - אוחים
> Weasels and other terrible animals, according to Mathers in Sepher Sephiroth [p. 10]. This word does not appear in scripture or in the Hebrew Lexicon. It suggest the quality of guile and deceit which hinders the great work.

## Greek/Latin

### L.V.X. (Lt)
> Lux. Light. The universal radiance which is the essential substance of all manifested things. see [207](207) jugum (Lt). yoke. Part of a Rosicrucian motto, Legis Jugum, found in the vault of C.R. related to the Sanskrit yoga or union, and to the throat-center symbolized by Taurus and by Venus. (L=50, V=5, X=10). see [113](113) (Lt), [870](870) (Greek), [111](111).

### [follis](/latin?word=follis) (Lt)
> a leather bag, purse; a pair of bellows; puffed-out cheeks. In Tarot, the wallet of [The Fool, Key 0](0). *"The wallet contains the summed-up experience of previous manifestations, because, at the beginning of every new cycle of self-expression, the Life-power carries with it the essence of all its experiences in former cycles."* [Paul Case: The Tarot, p. 34] Also, the Fool (Spirit) itself. *"...Fool is derived from the Latin "follis" meaning a "bag of wind". Thus the Fool symbolizes that which contains air, or breath."* [Highlights of Tarot, p. 16] see [82](82)

### See Also:

- [11](11)
- [2](2)