## 66 - Sixty-Six
> (2x3x11). Perimeter of a circle with a diameter of 21. The circumference of Yetzirah. Mystical number of the Qlippoth of the Great Work.

---

### [Elohekah](/keys/ALHIK) - אלהיך
> "thy God." [Deut. 4:24](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/4-24.htm); [Isaiah 60:20](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/60-20.htm); [Exodus 20:7](http://biblehub.com/exodus/20-7.htm). see [546](546).

---

### [akiylah](/keys/AKILH) - אכילה
> food, something edible. Indicates the source of daily bread as not being in the material world, but in the pattern world.

---

### [bawkhown](/keys/BChVN) - בחון
> an assayer (of metals); a trial, a test.

---

### [gawnuz](/keys/GNVZ) - גנוז
> hidden, secret. See "hidden light" ([273](273)).

---

### [galgal](/keys/GLGL) - גלגל
> literally, "whirl", a wheel, cycle, whirlwind; celestial orb, heaven (As the wheeling of the heavenly bodiesthe "beginning of the whirlings" is attributed to Kether). A special name of Shekinah, the Divine presence ("cognomen scheckinae"). Compare with Rota as the rotary nature of all formative activity ([48](48)).

> גלגל is used in Sepher Yetzirah 2:4 as signifying circle, celestial orb, sphere: *"These [22](22) letters, which are the foundation of all things, he arranged as on a sphere with [231](231) gates, and the sphere may be rotated forward or backward, whether for good or for evil; from the good comes true pleasure, from evil naught but torments."* see also [3](3), [21](21), [12](12), [30](30), [39](39), [48](48), [57](57), [75](75), [116](116) (and [zero](0)).

---

### [Ben-David](/keys/BN-DVD) - בן־דוד
> son of David. *"The builders of the temple... must be the son of David ... David is the English form of.. Davd , which means beloved , and the builder is therefore the son of the beloved. David is called in scripture the man after God's own heart , a description exactly answering to the name; and we therefore find that Solomon the builder is the son of the man who has entered into that reciprocal relation with God or the Universal Spirit, which can only be described as love."* [Thomas Troward: Bible Mystery and Bible Meaning, p. 123] see [375](375), [52](52), [14](14), [771](771) (Greek).

---

### [bakhoon](/keys/BChVN) - בחון
> a watchtower, observatory.

---

### [aneih](/keys/ANIH) - אניה
> a ship. Symbolizes the formative world as the connecting medium which carries the powers of the higher worlds down into the external physical plane. Conversely, the means whereby, on the path of return, we may be ferried over from the physical world to those beyond. see [7](7), [22](22), [14](14), [44](44), [21](21), [28](28), [88](88).

---

### [kemo](/keys/KMV) - כמו
> like, as, when. [Exodus 14:5](http://biblehub.com/exodus/14-5.htm). see [19](19).

---

### [Dinhabah](/keys/DNHBH) - דנהבה
> "Give forth judgements." Capital city of Bela, King of Edom. [Genesis 36:32](http://biblehub.com//.htm): "And Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom: and the name of his city was Dinhabah",; [IRQ: 522] *"What is דנהבה, [Dinhabah](/keys/DNHBH)? As if it were to be said, give forth Judgement."* The kingdom of Edom is that of unbalanced force; compare דן, [Dan](/keys/DN), "Judgement" = putrefaction = Scorpio = [54](54).

---

## Latin/Greek:

---

### [Aurora](/latin?word=Aurora) (Lt)
> Dawn. *"The Chaldean word for dawn is שפרפר [shefarpar](/keys/ShPRPR). In [Daniel 6:19](http://biblehub.com/daniel/6-19.htm), this word, prefixed with the letter Beth is translated "in the morning" ["Then the King arose very early in the morning, and went in haste unto the den of lions"] It is written שפרפרא [bishfarpara](/keys/BShPRPRA), the final Aleph indicates that the word is definite, emphatic. There is a mystery here for this is a the Hebrew text is permutated. The first Peh is written much smaller that the other letters; and the second Peh is written much larger than the other letters. This method is called permutation."* see [860](860). [Giljhnston: Gematria of the Pentagram-compiled]

---

### [Biagenos](/latin?word=Biagenos) (Lt)
> A Rosicrucian mountain; life-giving, generating, strength.

---

### [granum](/latin?word=granum) (Lt)
> A seed. In the Fama, brother CR is called "Granum Pectori Jesu Insitum," A seed planted in the breast of Jesus. The inner meaning has to do with Jesus own saying: "The seed is the word." Note that both "dawn" and "seed" imply the first stage of development (see [289](289), [310](310), [95](95), [50](50), [99](99) Latin).

---

### [Aurum](/latin?word=Aurum) (Lt)
> Gold. see [14](14), [109](109), [246](246) (Latin).

---

### [Tarot](/latin?word=tarot) (Lt)
Tarot.

---

### English Gematria:

- [Duty](/english?word=Duty) *([Fama Intro p.14](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n14))*

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
