## 67 - Sixty-Seven
> (prime)

### [Binah](/keys/BINH) - בינה
> Understanding, the [third Sephirah](3). Sometimes Binah is translated as "Intelligence." This must not be confused with שכל, [saykel](/keys/ShKL), which is the more general term for intelligence, or more accurately, for consciousness.

> The fundamental meaning of Binah is the power of separation, the ability to distinguish truth from falsehood, and the power to adapt means to ends. Thus it is the mental ability to distinguish one thing from another which is the basis for understanding. Binah is both the dark sterile Mother, אמא [Ama](/keys/AMA) and אימא [Aima](/keys/AIMA), the bright, pregnant Mother. This aspect of Reality is the matrix of all possible specialized forms of expression. Ama represents this aspect of Being prior to the beginning of a cycle of the Life-power's self-manifestation. Aima is the fertile womb from which flow forth all forms made manifest during such a cycle of the Life-power's self-expression.

> Binah is called Shabbathai, the Sphere of Saturn, because every appearance of special, particularized manifestation necessitates limits of quantity, quality, mass, form, etc. In the astrological terminology of Ageless Wisdom, the contractile, limiting power is called Saturn. Note, in this connection, that the birth of living creatures results from contraction of the womb which carries the body during its period of gestation. Binah is attributed נשמה [Neshamah](/keys/NShMH), the Divine Breath, the Holy Spirit in Christian symbolism. No matter how gravely a human being sins, this Neshamah is never involved. It is the highest aspect of Soul. The seat of the Divine Life's intuitive knowledge of all that it is, and of all that it must inevitably bring into manifestation because of what it knows itself to be. In man, Neshamah is the source of intuitive knowledge of spiritual truth. It is also the supreme source of guidance in the progress of man toward mastery.

> *"Thus may you come to understand that the Sabbath of the Eternal never ends. How then may man find rest, save in the heart of the Mother? For that heart is the ever virgin Neshamah, and she is one with the Everlasting Heavens. Dark she is, but comely, even as Solomon saith. The source of terror to the ignorant, and therefore Pachad dependeth with all its stern judgments from her. Yet is she also אמך, [Ameka](/keys/AMK), thy Mother, and her heart swelleth with love. For behold אמך: is it not [61](61), and this is בטן [beten](/keys/BTN), the dark womb of creation? And again, it is אין [Ain](/keys/AIN), the Boundless, for there are no limits to the overflowing love, springing like a fountain of Living Waters from the heart of the Mother. Everywhere may you find that heart, ye Children of Light, and nowhere else shall it be found, save at the center, which is the Holy Temple in the Midst, where Shabbathai hath its abode. There all is perfect rest, and thus was the great temple on earth built by Solomon, whose name signifieth "the peaceful," and set up in Jerusalem the dwelling place of peace. For these outer things are but figures. Until ye find the Hill of Zion in yourselves they shall be no more than figures, and dark ones in very truth...*

> *Comment: All through the words of the wise there is a continual recurrence to the idea that the ONE is timeless. That sequence has little or no meaning to the consciousness which is above and beyond all human thought. Thus often there seems to be confusion in their words. For example, in the last part of the Text, Binah is identified with Ameka, thy Mother, and immediately this is indicated as being the same as the first veil of אין, and as the vast expanse of the dark nothingness which is the womb of creation. Yet the Text is all the while dealing also with Saturn, and with the Path of Tav, and so with the idea of the eternal equilibrium or perfect rest at the center. Moreover, that rest is by clear implication identified with the Waters of Life. You may remember that our Elder Brother is reported to have said, "To those who labor I will give you rest," and to have told the woman that if she but knew who was speaking to her, that knowledge would be a well of living water. The meaning is not far to seek. Had she known who spoke to her she would have known the central Reality of her own Being, and who knows that, finds eternal life, eternal rest, and perfect peace, for these three are one. What you must take as your clue to the application to most of the Text referring to Shabbathai, is the place of Tav on the Tree. Note that the Mezlah descends to Malkuth through Tav, is what completes the perfection of Binah."* [Qabalistic Text and Commentary, 32nd Communication, 2/9/48]

> *"The four doctrines of the Grade of Magister Templi are derived from the name בינה, [Binah](/keys/BINH), Understanding. They are as follows:*

> - *([Beth](/keys/B): [Key 1](1), The Magician). Human personality is a medium for the transmission of the high potential of the Lifepower, working at superconscoius levels, to the lower potentials of embodiment in the field of existence below the lever of human self-consciousness. A Master of the Temple never for a moment loses his awareness of his relationship to that which is above, nor his awareness of innate power to control that which is below. No appearance ever frightens him. He never makes the mistake of supposing that he, personally, performs any action, or that the, personally, is responsible for any result. He is the witness of the mighty works of the One Identity. Watching the phenomena of this world, he sees everything working out for the inevitable freedom which is the necessary consequence of the Life-power's self-expression.*
> - *([Yod](/keys/I): [Key 9](9), The Hermit). A Master of the Temple has fully identified himself as being none other than the silent watcher on the heights of being. He perceives, with that watcher, that all activity is a series of transformations of the energy of subconsciousness. He knows that the self moves not, nor enters into any action. He knows that it as the eternal witness of the activities of its own power.*
> - *([Nun](/keys/N): [Key 13](13), Death). A Master of the Temple perceives that necessity and the beneficence of the continual transformation of physical vehicles. He sees that this principle of endless change in the world of form brings about the appearance of death. He does more than see. He has grasped the affirmative factor in the phenomenon of Death. he has borrowed strength form the eagle by using nerve currents which in ordinary men have no outlet save through the sex-function. A Master of the Temple employs these currents to stimulate certain parts of his brain. Through their functions, he gains the knowledge which delivers him from the body of this death, and gives him joyous freedom from the limitations of three-dimensional existence.*
> - *([Heh](/keys/H): [Key 4](4), The Emperor). Perfectly identified with the One Will, a Master of the Temple shares with that one its power as the Constitution Intelligence which makes, frames and composes the world. He has taken the full measure of his humanity in its relation to the Life-power. He sees himself as he really is. In that unwavering vision of truth there is no place for any faulty adjustment, either of his personal vehicles or of that larger vehicle of life, his environment.*

> [True and Invisible, p. 279-281, 2nd printing]

### [Kolyaw](/keys/KVLIA) - כוליא
Kidney. Can also mean "gonad" because primitive people thought kidneys were related to reproduction. see [Key 11 - Justice](11)

### [khanat](/keys/ChNT) - חנט
> to ripen (as fruit, because ripeness, odor and flavor go together) , to embalm (a body) or preserve, to spice (food). Binah, Understanding, is a preservative and relates to the preservation of a body of wisdom inherited from the past. Binah perfects human personality through complete mastery of the physical organism. It is that which holds the Wisdom of Chokmah. Related to final mastery of the human organism and to the body of C.R. found fair and unconsumed in a sepulcher.

### [Letter name Zain](/keys/ZIN) - זין
> weapon, sword. The sword symbolizes discrimination gained through trial and error, and understanding is the ripened fruit of discrimination. There is a distinct relationship between the third Sephirah, the Suit of Swords and the Yetziratic world. *"Now consider also that Mercury rules Gemini, represented in the Rota by [Key 6](6), and this is the key corresponding to Zain, the name of which letter is the number 67, the same as the value of Binah. That is, the Path of Zain is the first channel for the descending influence of Binah, and partakes of her essential nature. She however is pregnant with the descending influence from Kether through the Path of Beth..."* [Commentary-33rd Communication 2/12/48]

> *"...the secret of Tiphareth is 7, or Netzach; but since 7 is also Zain, the secret is shown in the Rota by the Lovers, and their number in the series is 6. Furthermore, [Zain](/keys/ZIN) is, in Hebrew, זין, and this adds to 67, the value of בינה, [Binah](/keys/BINH), whence the path of the Lovers descends to Tiphareth. 6, 9 and 13 are the Rota numbers of זין, and this is 28, the perfect number which is the extension of 7, and 7 is Netzach."* [13th Communication] see [1081](1081), [187](187), [148](148), [418](418), [134](134) (Latin).

> *"Daleth is the path of union of אב and אימא. Without that union, Binah is אמא, dark and sterile; but after that union she is אימא, and brings forth בן, the Son. See, then, that the path of Zain carries down the power of Binah, and therefore is there a mountain, symbol of pregnancy, in the background of [Key 6](6)."* [Commentary - 13th Communication 5/28/47]

### [zahlal](/keys/ZLL) - זלל
> to shake, to tremble, to quake; to pour out, to shake out; motion to and fro. The root idea is vibration-a step downward from the perfection of Kether. To manifest at all, the limitless must enter into conditions of apparent restriction. Vibration is alternating activity, and the vibratory pitch of anything represents certain fixed limits or boundaries. This coincides with Binah as the first Sephirah of limitation and the basis of all form. Saturn is active in Binah because its root meaning is the same limitation and "fixing of boundaries" which is essential to the expression of anything at all. Also: to be a glutton, to be vile, mean. Prodigality and waste, baseness. The product of unrestricted subconscious activity.

### [Nagiyd](/keys/NGID) - נגיד
> "he who is foremost", or "he who is at the front". a leader, a prince, noble, a prefect. [Daniel 9:25](http://biblehub.com/daniel/9-25.htm). The Hebrew name for the Rosicrucian Grade of Master of the Temple, corresponding to Binah.

### [Ben Yah](/keys/BN.IH) - בן יה
> Son of Jah (God). [Lesser Holy Assembly, 228-229]

### [Abidan](/keys/ABIDN) - אבידן
> "Father of Judgement". See Geburah and the Path of Lamed on the Tree.

### [AVNI](/keys/AVNI) - אוני
> Belong to the lobe, lobar [K.D.L.C.K p. 57]

### [Vinah](/keys/VINA) - וינא
> Night Demon of the 3rd decanate [Saturn/Uranus] of Gemini.

### [Jabamiah](/keys/IBMIH) - יבמיה
> "Word which produces all things. 70th Shemhamphorash. 346°-350°. THOPIBUI. May 28, August 8, October 19, December 30, March 12. [Genesis 1:1](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-1.htm). Rules the generation of beings, and the phenomena of Nature; protects those who wish to regenerate themselves and establish in themselves the harmony interrupted by the disobedience of Adam, which they accomplish by exalting themselves toward God, and in purifying the elements which compose the nature of man; when he recovers his rights, his original dignity, when he becomes again the master of nature, and exercises all the prerogatives which God gave him in creating him. Person born: distinguished by his genius; consulted by the savants of all nations and becomes one of the first lights of philosophy. Godwin gives: Yebamiah; angel of the 4th quinance (16-20) of Cancer; angel by night of the 3 of Cups. this represents the influence of Binah, sphere of Saturn, in Briah, the World of Creation. see [965](965), [1525](1525).

## Greek/Latin

### [Jesus](/latin?word=Jesus) (Lt)
> Latin spelling of Yeshua. In Christian esotericism this name is applied to the Son, and we have seen that in the very word [BINH] are to be found the letters B and N, forming Ben, the Son.

### [Natura](/latin?word=Natura) (Lt)
> Nature; Mother Nature. Nature is the Maya-Shakti of Hindu philosophy, the finitizing principle Qabalists name Binah.

### [unus](/latin?word=unus) (Lt)
> one; alone, single, sole. Refers to the unity of all life. The actual substance of "all things" is the being of the Logos or Word (Logos = [373](373), reduces to [13](13), which is אחד, [echud](/keys/AChD), one and אהבה [ahebah](/keys/AHBH), love, thus love and unity.) The established order of all things is a unity "all things" are nature. see [215](215), [39](39).

### [crucis](/latin?word=crucis) (Lt)
> cross. The "cross" of the 4 elements, constitution the 4 colors of the Sephiroth Malkuth, the manifested universe, or Kingdom of God. see [65](65), Adonai, [193](193), [701](701) (Latin)

### [centro](/latin?word=centro) (Lt)
> It is in the Secret place within that we make contact with Binah. There, and there only, may we hear the voice. This inner center is the point at the center of the Cube of Space, the point at the innermost center of human personality, associated with Tav. Represents the meeting-place of the axes of the cube, which are [13](13).

### [templi](/latin?word=templi) (Lt)
> of the temple. The "temple is regenerated human personality; one who has succeeded in this "building" has become a Master of the Temple. see [84](84), [151](151) (Latin).

### See Also

- [13](13)
- [4](4)
