## 70 - Seventy
> (2x5x7)

---

### [Ayin](/keys/O) - ע
> *"The letter [Ayin](/keys/OIN) does not speak. It only sees. It is an eye, עין. Close your eyes. Open your mouth. Now try to see. That is the sound of Ayin."* [The Book of Letters, Rabbi Kushner]

> *"The name of the letters עין when rearranged, spells "[Poor](/keys/ONI)" עני. The letter Ayin comes after Samekh in the alphabet, to teach us that a man should "support" (ס) the "poor" (ע) before poverty causes them to fall. In its shape also, the letter Ayin, with its one curved leg, suggest a person who has no firm basis; it is bending and unstable."* [Letter of Fire, Rabbi Glazerson]

> *"This path ([26th](26), connecting Tiphareth to Hod) is connected with the letter Ayin, and the name of this letter, besides signifying the eye as an organ of sight , also means the visible part of an object, the surface, the appearance. Thus the word [Ayin](/keys/OIN) stands for the phenomenal as opposed to the noumenal, for that which is given to sensation or impression as opposed to that which is subject to natural verification. The eye is therefore the natural symbol of those external shows which conceals reality. It is the sign of man's finite experience of things as they seem, as opposed to the realities of the hidden essence veiled, in form. Through the function of the eye we become aware of the phantasmagoria of the phenomenal world, which Shakespeare called this unsubstantial pageant. The untrained eye is the great deceiver. On this account the letter Ayin is attributed to the Tarot Key whose title means The Slanderer."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p. 340].

> *In scripture this is the number of years of the ordinary span of human life, in contrast to the magical age of [120](120) years, mentioned by the Psalmist. (In [Key 15](15) the evil represents the dweller on the threshold, barring the way that leads to the inner center. Thus he is the same in function as Daleth, the door which must be opened and passed before we can enter the palace of the king.)* [Paul Case: True and Invisible (4th), p. 182]

> The Chaldean character looks nothing like an eye, but its form suggest the duality of human visions, the letter-name more definitely. [Paul Case: Tarot Practice Course] see [358](358)

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"This character should be considered under the double relation of vowel and consonant. Following its vocal acceptation, it represents the interior of the ear of man, and becomes the symbol of confused, dull, inappreciable noises; deep sounds without harmony. Following its consonantal acceptation, it belongs to the guttural sound and represents the cavity of the chest. Under both relations as grammatical sign, it is in general, that of material sense, image of void and nothingness as vowel, it is the sign Vav, considered in its purely physical relations: as consonant, it is the sign of that which is cooked, false, perverse and bad."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 413]

---

### [Adam ve-Chavah](/keys/ADM.VChVH) - אדם וחוה
> Adam and Eve. i.e. Humanity. see [45](45), [19](19).

---

### [haseh](/keys/HSH) - הסה
> Hush! Be silent! Hold your peace! Also: הסה (hasah), to be silent; tongues. Compare this with the meaning of [pax](35), has to do with the control of speech. Silence: one of the 4 occult maxims. It is the soundless voice of the inner life, expressing itself through thought. Heh reminds us that to receive the inner tuition we must learn to keep silent. For the clearest, intensest vision, this is essential. 2nd Heh (Malkuth--the Bride). We shall accomplish more work and do it better if we do not say too much about our plans and projects. Samekh hints that in silence there is a supporting or sustain power. Desire will be intensified. see [474](474), [346](346), [131](131), [815](815).

> Paul Case, writing in Theory of Magic says: *"The Hebrew word for silence הסה, claims our attention now. Its first letter is Heh, and so is its last. Our teachers in the Qabalah, tell us that the first Heh is the Heh of the Mother, Aima of Binah, while the last is the Heh of the Bride, Malkuth. The first Heh, therefore corresponds to the creative world and to the faculty of intuition. Thus it reminds us that to receive the interior tuition which reveals to us the mysteries of cosmic law we must learn to keep silent. The inner voice is not heard by those who indulge in needless talk, furthermore, the letter Heh is the letter of sight, and for the clearest, intensest vision, silence is essential. The second Heh may serve to remind us of Lao-Tze's dictum the state should be governed as we cook small fish, without much business."*

> *"When we come to apply whatever magical knowledge we may possess to the actual work of taking our part in the administration of the kingdom, we shall accomplish more work and do it better if we do not have too much to say about our plans and projects. The middle letter of הסה, Samekh, hints that in silence there is a supporting or sustaining power. That this is true every practical occultist learns sooner or later. The practice of silence as to what you aim at, as to what you are doing, has two very important practical results. First of all, it prevents other people from leaning of your plans and perhaps setting themselves in opposition to you. Thus silence is over and over again a time-saver and an energy-saver. Secondly, the practice of silence serves to intensity desire-force. Your one aim (the arrow of the archer, represented by the letter Samekh) is something that you must keep religiously to yourself. Not even your closest friends should know of it. This one aim is typified in Revelation by the white stone, upon which is written a name which no man knoweth, save him that receiveth it. The one thing you have to do in order to fulfill your destiny will be, or perchance has been, revealed to you from within. See that you tell no man. For in silence and secrecy the strength and potency of that aim will be intensified until it dominates your whole life. But if you tell your secret to other people, virtue goes out of you and you are almost certain to incite somebody to acts of open or veiled opposition."* (pp. 166-168) [1925] see [815](815).

> *"הסה has to do with the control of speech. It intimates that there is a something not to be disclosed, except in the company of the truly qualified; and this mystery is typified by the wine, and by intoxication (in both good and bad senses). It is a mystery of darkness (LIL) and limitation (S?VBB?), and it has to do with the various appearances reported by our senses (the letter Ayin and Key 15) Yet is it also a mystery of renewal and regeneration, and this mystery is the סוד which has been preserved generation after generation, in the assembly of the inner school."* [ML 22:6,7]

---

### [ken](/keys/KN) - כן
> thus, "so", just so, such, so much; honest. In [Genesis 1:7](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-7.htm): *"So Elohim made the firmament and separated the water under the expanse from the water above it. And it was so."*

> Also in [Genesis 42:11](http://biblehub.com/genesis/42-11.htm): *"We are all sons of one man. Your servants are honest [KNIM] men, not spies."* see [720](720).

---

### [yayin](/keys/IIN) - יין
> Wine. This is word is used in [Genesis 9:21](http://biblehub.com/genesis/9-21.htm): *"And he [Noah] drank of its [the vineyard's] wine, and became drunken; and he was uncovered within his tent."*

> Fabre D'Olivet renders this verse:

> > *"And being steeped with the spirit of his production, he intoxicated his thought (attained ecstasy) and (in his exactation he revealed himself in the center (most secret place) of his tabernacle."*

> > He comments: *"מו־היין with-what-is-spirituous... The word יין, which in the natural order signifies simply **wine,** designates in the moral order, and according to the figurative and hieroglyphic sense, **a spiritual essence,** the knowledge of which has passed in all times, as belonging to the most profound mysteries of Nature. All those who have written of it, present the mysterious essence as a thing whose profoundness can not be known without revelation. The Kabbalists are accustomed to say, in speaking of this wine, that he who drank of it would know all the secrets of the sages. I can only offer to the read the grammatical analysis of the Hebrew word, leaving the rest to his sagacity.*

> > *"I have often spoken during the course of my notes of the root אין, which enjoys the universal privilege of characterizing alternately, being and nothingness, everything and nothing...*

> > *"It is evident that this root, emerging from the deepest abysses of nature, rises toward being or fall toward nothingness, proportionally, as the two mother vowels או, enlighten or obscure it. From its very principle, it suffices to materialize or to spiritualize the convertible sign Vav, in order to fix its expression upon objects genuine or false. Thus one sees it in און, virtue, strength, valor, and in און, vice, vanity, cowardice, in יון the generative faculty of Nature; in יון the clay of the earth.*

> > *"In the word here referred to, the two vowels are not only enlightened by replaced by the sign of potential manifestation Yod, image of intellectual duration. This sign being doubled constitutes, among the Chaldeans, one of the proper names of the divinity. United to the final sign Vav, it seems, if I can so express it, to offer the very body of that which is incorporeal. It is a spiritual essence which many peoples and particularly the Egyptians, have considered under the emblem of light. Thus, for example, one finds in the Coptic [word] **light** or **torch.** It is in conceiving this essence under the form of **spirit,** that those same peoples, choosing for it an emblem more within the reach of the vulgar, have taken for its physical envelope **wine,** that liquor so vaunted in all the ancient mysteries because of the spirit which it contains and of which it was the symbol. This is the origin of these words which, coming from the same root appears so different in signification: און being and יין wine, of which the Greek analogous offer the same phenonenon ων being and οίνος, wine.*

> > *"...it is by an almost inevitable consequence of this double sense attached to the word יין, that the cosmogonic personage call [Greek word], Dionysus, by the Greek, has finally designated for the vulgar, only the god of wine, after having been the emblem of spiritual light; and that the same word which we use has become such, only as a result of the same degradation of the sense which was attached to it, a degradation always coincident with the hardening of the mother vowel: for, from the word יין, is formed the Teutoic wein, the Latin "vinum", and the French vin.*

> [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 264-265]

> Cario Suares observes: *"Noah transmutes downward his [eesh](/keys/AISH) ([311](311)) quality of fire by becoming eesh (husband) to [Adamah](/keys/ADAMH) ([50](50), the earth). The earth reproduces this fire as wine (the wine as symbol expressed that fact, as the Qabalah well knows). [Genesis 9:21](http://biblehub.com/genesis/9-21.htm). The strange fruit of the nuptials between eesh (as man-fire) and Adamah is יין [yeen](/keys/IIN)... this yeen is a sort of tornado in which anything can happen. The English word wine is the Hebrew word scarcely modified, so also is the Latin (incidentally, it is not generally realized how may of our words derive from, or are, the Hebrew ones). This verse exemplifies the fact that the symbols of blood and wine belong to the same category. Having drunk, Noah -- as is expected if his name נח, is understood -- loses his Adamaic quality and sinks unto an unevolved state. The relationship between him and Adamah is all to Adamah's advantage. Noah's consciousness now lapses into the unconsciousness of undifferentiated cosmic life and uncovers the true significance of this Noah whose numbers reveal that he is a life not yet entered into the process of evolution (he falls asleep with his genitals uncovered)."* [The Cipher of Genesis, p. 147]

---

### [lekakh](/keys/LKK) - לכך
> so, thus. [Sepher Yetzirah 1:7]

---

### [layil, leyil](/keys/LIL) - ליל
> night (literally, a twist away from light). A variant of לילה [layelah](/keys/LILH) ([75](75)). Said in Genesis to be God's own name for חשך [khoshek](/keys/ChShK), darkness. The symbolism of [Key 15](15), which corresponds to [Ayin](/keys/O) and 70, is a representation of darkness. And it is a picture of the dark night of the soul, and of the adversity [rest of text missing]

---

### [Adonijah](/keys/ADNIH) - אדניה
> Lord (i.e. worshiper) of Jah. [1 Kings 1:5](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/1-5.htm): (Who said "I will be king") Jah is a divine name attributed to Chokmah. see [15](15), [26](26), [73](73), [65](65).

---

### [Mik](/keys/MIK) - מיך
> 42nd name of Shemhamphorash, short form of Michael, associated with the 6th quinance of Aquarius. see [550](550), [101](101).

---

### [Gog ve-Magog](/keys/GVG.VMGVG) - גוג ומגוג
> A name given to a race or people inhabiting some part of the northern region. Gog is used in [1 Chronicles 5:4](http://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/5-4.htm); Magog appears in [Genesis 10:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/10-2.htm). The names "Gog and Magog", only appear together in the Greek of the apocalypse of John Γὼγ καὶ Μαγώγ, where they are used as symbolic terms for the world as hostile to God's people and kingdom. In [Revelation 20:8](http://biblehub.com/revelation/20-8.htm): *"And [the Adversary] will go forth to deceive those nations which are in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to assemble them together for war; whose number is as the sand of the sea."*

> Fabre D'Olivet renders Magog as "elasticity", or "elastic stretching power." He comments: *"The root of גוה, which expresses a movement being opposed to itself, indicates in the word גוג an extension continued, elastic, pushed to its utmost limits. this word governed by the sign of exterior action Mem, characterizes that faculty of matter, by which it is extended and lengthened, without there being any solution of continuity."* [Hebrew Tongue Restored p. 273-274]

---

### [sobob](/keys/SVBB) - סובב
> circle, ring, circumference.

---

### [sode](/keys/SVD) - סוד
> a council, assembly; secret; to plaster. Mathers, in [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 11] cites [Psalm 25:14](http://biblehub.com/psalms/25-14.htm): *"The secret of the Lord is in those who revere him, and he shows forth his covenant to them."*

---

## Latin/Greek

---

### [hagneia](/greek?word=agneia) (Gr) - αγνεια
> purity, chastity.

---

### [filius](/latin?word=filius) (Lt)
> Son.

---

### [tartar](/latin?word=tartar) (Lt)
> a part of the alchemical salt.

---

### [oratio](/latin?word=oratio) (Lt)
Speaking. See [112](112) (Lt).

---

### See Also

- [7](7)
