## 72 - Seventy-Two
(9x8)

18 x 4 or the multiplication of the 4 elemental powers through
the activity of IH, Chai, Life. The number of degrees on an arc
of a circle inscribed by a pentagram and between 2 points of a
pentagram.

ChSD Chesed. Mercy, beneficence. 4th Sephirah. The primary
meanings of Chesed are: eager, earnest desire, and ardor or zeal
toward anything. Also kindness, love, good-will, pity and
compassion. The measuring, arresting or receptacular
Intelligence. A reservoir of Limitless power and substance of
all things needful both spiritual and material. It rises like a
boundary to receive the emanation of the Higher Intelligences
which are sent down to it. The grade of Chasidim, Masters of
compassion and healers which is the consciousness of exempt adept
(see 48, 82, 194, 178, 528, 122).

Chesed is called Gedulah, [GDVLH], Majesty or Magnificence.
Chesed is known also as the Measuring Intelligence, for it is the
basis of all adjustment, measurement, order and adaptation.
The basis of all adjustment and regulation is memory. The whole
course of evolution is an orderly development made possible
because the Universal Life has perfect memory. Every point of
manifested Being is a focus of perfect memory. The One Life
remembers perfectly all that it is in itself, and every event in
the series of its self-expressions. Nothing is forgotten.
Nothing is beyond recall. Human memory is one phase of this
cosmic record.

Chesed is the Sphere of Tzedek, or Jupiter. Jupiter is the
"sky-father" who was the ancient personification of the principle
of Beneficent Regulation.

The letters of the word form part of the doctrines of the Grade
of Exempt Adept. 1. The Chariot, Key 7 (Cheth): The I am does
nothing, for the I Am is the One Identity called God and God is
changeless. That One Identity is the witness of activity, but is
not itself modified or altered by the transformations that go on
around it. All change, all modification, is in the field of
energy with revolves around the I Am. The self does nothing. It
never had done anything. It is simply the witness of the panorama
of the transformations proceeding from its own mysterious power.

2. Temperance, Key 14 (Samekh): All circumstances are gifts from
the Almighty. Personality is the instrument of the One Self.
Every detail of our daily experience is a good gift from the One
Source. There can be no evil gift form the one giver of all good.

3. The Empress, Key 3 (Daleth): To know that all circumstances
are gifts from the one identity is to free subconsciousness from
every erroneous image of terror, lack, hatred; sorrow, or
mistrust. Whatever external appearances may be, they are
invariably veils of manifestation for the divine beneficence.
hope, courage, happiness and joy are fruits of the spirit, the
expression of accurate measurement of the facts of experience."
[Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), pp.. 418-
419.] see 178.

BSVD ba-sod. in the secret; in the magical language. This word
has special reference to the ninth Sephirah, as well as to
Chesed. It is connected with the intelligent direction of the
force which is concentrated in Yesod. In human personality, this
is the reproductive force whereby the race is perpetuated. Note
that one of the paths proceeding from Chesed is Yod, which is
symbolized by Key 9, the number of Yesod. Key 9 pictures that
which is the true Foundation or Basis (Yesod) of all human
activity; and the wise man it pictures, besides being a
personification of the powers and beneficence of Chesed, is also
one who is "in the secret" of intelligent direction of the secret
force behind reproduction. Connected with the intelligent
direction of the reproductive force concentrated in Yesod. Key 9
pictures a wise man "in the secret" of this force.

IVD HI VIV HI Yod-hi-vav-hi. Special spelling of IHVH in the
Archetypal world, Atziluth, related to the 4 of Wands. According
to Ibnezra, their value as 72 refers to the 72 letters of
Shemhamphorash, the holy name of God. The divided name consists
of 72 triliteral names, which by adding IH or AL give 72 angels.
see 777 [columns CXXIX, CXXX, CXXXI and CXXXII] and Kabbalah
unveiled, p.171. see also 26, 45

OB ob, darkness, dark cloud, cloud mass; thicket, bag, wrapper.
This word is used to indicate the "secret nature of the
archetypal world" associated with the suit of Wands. To our
intellectual consciousness this highest plane of the Life-power's
activity is wrapped in clouds and darkness. Note that Jupiter
(and also Jehovah) is a deity connected with cloud and storm.
(See Key 10, which carries the influence of Chesed down to
Netzach). Also OB, threshold, sill; beam and as an adjective,
thick, dense. see 965.

BKN bawkan. in, so, thus, then; in such a way; and so;
therefore. (see BN, masculine, base, pedestal; post, etc and BN,
adverb, so, thus, yes) see 52.

VIKLV ve-yaklou. and they are excellent, finished. The Merciful
Ones, who are "in the secret."

Greek

Kana (Gr). Cana, scene of Jesus 1st Miracle. Basically, "A reed
used for measuring," connects with Chesed as the Measuring
Intelligence. Measurement is suggested in the story of the
miracle. See "place of reeds" 155.

heh aletheia (Gr). the truth. see 9, 18, 27, 36, 45, 54, 63, 81,
90. [John14:6] "Jesus says to him "I am the way, the truth, and
the life. No man comes to the Father, except by me."

Latin

Natron. Mineral alkali; nitre.

vacuum (Lt). empty, void, free, clear. Related to the 4 of Wands
in the apparent emptiness of the archetypal world in periods
between cycles of manifestation. It is connected with the Eternal
Supply aspect of Chesed. In Atziluth this source of supply, in
relation to the planes below, seems to be without form and
sterile, yet all riches, all beneficence, have their origin in
these archetypal principles (Sanskrit Pralaya).

Abiegnus. "of fir-wood". It is the name of the Rosicrucian
"mountain of initiation." Kundalini (the Serpent-fire) rises
through the seven interior stars or spinal centers to energize
the pineal gland (which is shaped like a fir-cone), Mons
Abiegnus, "Mountain of Fir-wood". Represents the Mystical ascent
in consciousness, leading to a state of exaltation
(illumination), often compared to intoxication [Among the Greeks
the Fir tree was among the symbols of Dionysus, God of the vine.
The Thyrsus, a staff used in the Dionysian Mysteries, was twined
with ivy, and surmounted by a pine-cone.] It is an instance of
the operation of Divine Grace. Like the Hermetic caduceus, it
refers to the same ascent of Kundalini through the spinal centers
which awakens the organ of higher vision. Christ is the true
vine", The miracle of Cana changed water into wine, to promote
joy at a marriage-feast. Wine is used in the Eucharist, as the
material base for a true alchemical transmutation. Rosicrucian,
Qabalistic and Alchemical literature is replete with symbols
relating to the vine and its fruit. see 125, 129, 668, 811, 1035,
182.

verbum (Lt). word. The Latin equivalent for the Greek Logos.
Verbum stands for the formative power of the Creative Idea.
Venus. Goddess of Love and desire, corresponding to the Greek
[word], and Key 3, The Empress in Tarot. A most important key to
the entire alchemical great work is the power of creative
imagination. see 993 (Greek). 434, 3, 1035.

rubeum (Latin). red. The color of Mars. Part of a phrase. see 406

naturae (Latin). of nature. Part of a phrase. see 132 (Latin),
156 (Latin).

balsamum (Latin) balsam. Concerning the alchemical dragon, or
serpent-power, it is said in The Book of Lambspring "In the hour
of his death his venom becomes the great medicine. He quickly
consumes his venom, for he devours his poisonous tail. All this
is performed on his own body, from which flows forth glorious
balm, with all its miraculous virtues. Here do all the sages
loudly rejoice." [Hermetic Museum I, p.286]. Case: Balsamum = 72
= Venus = verbum. see 37 (Latin).