## 72 - Seventy-Two
> (9x8). 18 x 4 or the multiplication of the 4 elemental powers through the activity of חי, [Chai](/keys/IH), Life. The number of degrees on an arc of a circle inscribed by a pentagram and between 2 points of a pentagram.

---

### [Chesed](/keys/ChSD) - חסד
> Mercy, beneficence. 4th Sephirah. The primary meanings of Chesed are: eager, earnest desire, and ardor or zeal toward anything. Also kindness, love, good-will, pity and compassion. The measuring, arresting or receptacular Intelligence. A reservoir of Limitless power and substance of all things needful both spiritual and material. It rises like a boundary to receive the emanation of the Higher Intelligences which are sent down to it. The grade of Chasidim, Masters of compassion and healers which is the consciousness of exempt adept. see [48](48), [82](82), [194](194), [178](178), [528](528), [122](122).

> > Chesed is called [Gedulah](/keys/GDVLH), גדולה, Majesty or Magnificence. Chesed is known also as the Measuring Intelligence, for it is the basis of all adjustment, measurement, order and adaptation. The basis of all adjustment and regulation is memory. The whole course of evolution is an orderly development made possible because the Universal Life has perfect memory. Every point of manifested Being is a focus of perfect memory. The One Life remembers perfectly all that it is in itself, and every event in the series of its self-expressions. Nothing is forgotten. Nothing is beyond recall. Human memory is one phase of this cosmic record.

> > Chesed is the Sphere of Tzedek, or Jupiter. Jupiter is the "sky-father" who was the ancient personification of the principle of Beneficent Regulation.

> > The letters of the word form part of the doctrines of the Grade of Exempt Adept.

> > - [The Chariot, Key 7](7) (Cheth): The I am does nothing, for the I Am is the One Identity called God and God is changeless. That One Identity is the witness of activity, but is not itself modified or altered by the transformations that go on around it. All change, all modification, is in the field of energy with revolves around the I Am. The self does nothing. It never had done anything. It is simply the witness of the panorama of the transformations proceeding from its own mysterious power.

> > - [Temperance, Key 14](14) (Samekh): All circumstances are gifts from the Almighty. Personality is the instrument of the One Self. Every detail of our daily experience is a good gift from the One Source. There can be no evil gift form the one giver of all good.

> > - [The Empress, Key 3](3) (Daleth): To know that all circumstances are gifts from the one identity is to free subconsciousness from every erroneous image of terror, lack, hatred; sorrow, or mistrust. Whatever external appearances may be, they are invariably veils of manifestation for the divine beneficence. hope, courage, happiness and joy are fruits of the spirit, the expression of accurate measurement of the facts of experience."

> > *[Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), pp.. 418- 419.]* see [178](178).

---

### [ba-sod](/keys/BSVD) - בסוד
> in the secret; in the magical language. This word has special reference to the ninth Sephirah, as well as to Chesed. It is connected with the intelligent direction of the force which is concentrated in Yesod. In human personality, this is the reproductive force whereby the race is perpetuated. Note that one of the paths proceeding from Chesed is Yod, which is symbolized by [Key 9](9), the number of Yesod. Key 9 pictures that which is the true Foundation or Basis (Yesod) of all human activity; and the wise man it pictures, besides being a personification of the powers and beneficence of Chesed, is also one who is "in the secret" of intelligent direction of the secret force behind reproduction. Connected with the intelligent direction of the reproductive force concentrated in Yesod. Key 9 pictures a wise man "in the secret" of this force.

---

### [Yod-hi-vav-hi](/keys/IVD.HI.VIV.HI) - יוד הי ויו הי
> Special spelling of IHVH in the Archetypal world, Atziluth, related to the 4 of Wands. According to Ibnezra, their value as 72 refers to the 72 letters of Shemhamphorash, the holy name of God. The divided name consists of 72 triliteral names, which by adding IH or AL give 72 angels. see 777 [columns CXXIX, CXXX, CXXXI and CXXXII] and Kabbalah unveiled, p.171. see also [26](26), [45](45)

---

### [ob](/keys/OB) - עב
> darkness, dark cloud, cloud mass; thicket, bag, wrapper. This word is used to indicate the "secret nature of the archetypal world" associated with the suit of Wands. To our intellectual consciousness this highest plane of the Life-power's activity is wrapped in clouds and darkness. Note that Jupiter (and also Jehovah) is a deity connected with cloud and storm. (See Key 10, which carries the influence of Chesed down to Netzach).

> Also עב, threshold, sill; beam and as an adjective, thick, dense. see [965](965).

---

### [bawkan](/keys/BKN) - בכן
> in, so, thus, then; in such a way; and so; therefore. (see בן, masculine, base, pedestal; post, etc and בן, adverb, so, thus, yes) see [52](52).

---

### [ve-yaklou](/keys/VIKLV) - יכלו
> and they are excellent, finished. The Merciful Ones, who are "in the secret."

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Kana](/greek?word=kana) (Gr) - Κανά
> Cana, scene of Jesus 1st Miracle. Basically, "A reed used for measuring," connects with Chesed as the Measuring Intelligence. Measurement is suggested in the story of the miracle. See "place of reeds" [155](155).

---

### [heh aletheia](/greek?word=h+alhtheia) (Gr) - ἡ ἀλήθεια
> the truth. see [9](9), [18](18), [27](27), [36](36), [45](45), [54](54), [63](63), [81](81), [90](90). [John 14:6](http://biblehub.com/john/14-6.htm) *"Jesus says to him "I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes to the Father, except by me."*

---

### [Natron](/latin?word=Natron) (Lt)
> Mineral alkali; nitre.

---

### [vacuum](/latin?word=vacuum) (Lt)
> empty, void, free, clear. Related to the 4 of Wands in the apparent emptiness of the archetypal world in periods between cycles of manifestation. It is connected with the Eternal Supply aspect of Chesed. In Atziluth this source of supply, in relation to the planes below, seems to be without form and sterile, yet all riches, all beneficence, have their origin in these archetypal principles (Sanskrit Pralaya).

---

### [Abiegnus](/latin?word=Abiegnus) (Lt)
> "of fir-wood". It is the name of the Rosicrucian "mountain of initiation." Kundalini (the Serpent-fire) rises through the seven interior stars or spinal centers to energize the pineal gland (which is shaped like a fir-cone), Mons Abiegnus, "Mountain of Fir-wood". Represents the Mystical ascent in consciousness, leading to a state of exaltation (illumination), often compared to intoxication [Among the Greeks the Fir tree was among the symbols of Dionysus, God of the vine. The Thyrsus, a staff used in the Dionysian Mysteries, was twined with ivy, and surmounted by a pine-cone.] It is an instance of the operation of Divine Grace. Like the Hermetic caduceus, it refers to the same ascent of Kundalini through the spinal centers which awakens the organ of higher vision. Christ is the true vine", The miracle of Cana changed water into wine, to promote joy at a marriage-feast. Wine is used in the Eucharist, as the material base for a true alchemical transmutation. Rosicrucian, Qabalistic and Alchemical literature is replete with symbols relating to the vine and its fruit. see [125](125), [129](129), [668](668), [811](811), [1035](1035), [182](182).

---

### [verbum](/latin?word=verbum) (Lt)
> word. The Latin equivalent for the Greek Logos. Verbum stands for the formative power of the Creative Idea. Venus. Goddess of Love and desire, corresponding to the Greek [word], and Key 3, The Empress in Tarot. A most important key to the entire alchemical great work is the power of creative imagination. see 993 (Greek). [434](434), [3](3), [1035](1035).

---

### [rubeum](/latin?word=rubeum) (Lt)
> red. The color of Mars. Part of a phrase. see [406](406)

---

### [naturae](/latin?word=naturae) (Lt)
> of nature. Part of a phrase. see [132](132) (Lt), [156](156) (Lt).

---

### [balsamum](/latin?word=balsamum) (Lt)
> balsam. Concerning the alchemical dragon, or serpent-power, it is said in The Book of Lambspring "In the hour of his death his venom becomes the great medicine. He quickly consumes his venom, for he devours his poisonous tail. All this is performed on his own body, from which flows forth glorious balm, with all its miraculous virtues. Here do all the sages loudly rejoice." [Hermetic Museum I, p.286]. Case: Balsamum = 72 = Venus = verbum. see [37](37) (Lt).

---

### English Gematria:

- [power](/english?word=power) *([Fama Intro p.14](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n14))*

---

### See Also:

- [9](9)