## 73 - Seventy-Three
> (prime). The combined numerical values of Mercury ([37](37)), Sulphur ([7](7)), and salt ([29](29)). An intimation that the powers of Mercury and Salt are combined in Sulphur.

---

### [Chokmah](/keys/ChKMH) - חכמה
> Wisdom, 2nd Sephirah; Wise woman. Corresponds to Yod in יהוה. The sphere of the zodiac or sphere of fixed stars ([Masloth](/keys/MSLVTh)). Continuation in the sense carrying the onward or extending the initial impulse symbolized by [1](1) ([Kether](/keys/KThR)). Seat of [Chaiah](/keys/ChIH), the Life-force. Contains the unmanifested aspects of the [3rd](3) and [6th](6) Sephiroth. The dual (Masculine-Feminine) potency which brings the whole Tree of Life into manifestation. Sulphur is attributed to [Chokmah](/keys/ChKMH) in the book AESCH METZAREPH (see [15](15), [7](7), [693](693), [168](168), [536](536)).

> Paul Foster Case:

> - *(The Chariot, [Cheth](/keys/Ch)) the Magic of Light is the practical application of the science of Reality. A Magus is not a mountebank, nor a producer of illusions, nor a caster of glamour. He has mastered the sphinxes of sensation by the invisible reins of his mind. He has perfected himself in the art of occult speech, so that he transmits, from higher planes to lower, the creative Word of the One identity. His path of life is one with the highway of the stars. His thought and word embody the truth of Reality as opposed to the lie of appearances.*

> - *(The Wheel of Fortune, [Kaph](/keys/K)) Popular opinion conceives Magic to be a method of circumventing the law, of going against Nature. The contrary is true. Many works of Magic are exceptions to the law of averages that dominates the average man and the kingdoms of life below him, but these words are exceptions only in the sense that they go beyond the usual phenomena of common experience. A Magus completes the circle of life expression and ascends to the position of unity with the One Reality. His works never contradict the Law, nor do they destroy it. Always they are fulfillments.*

> - *(The Hanged Man, [Mem](/keys/M)) The Magic of Light correctly estimates the place of human personality in the Cosmic order and thus reverses the opinions of the mass humanity. The Magus is not driven by the false will to power, which is really a feeling of lack of power. He is animated by the will to serve, based on his immediate perception of all power. His one concern is the wise distribution of the limitless riches at his disposal. To the world of ignorant men he seems to sacrifice himself, because he strives for none of the baubles they hold dear. To himself nothing that he does wears the aspect of sacrifice. All of his acts are works of purest joy.*

> - *(The Emperor, [Heh](/keys/H)) A Magus sees eye to eye with the Ancient of the Ancient Ones. he has "restored the Creator to his throne." The Magic of Light is the exercise of the Constitution Intelligence, which frames the universe.*

> [True and invisible Rosicrucian Order, p. 292-293]

---

### [Abikam](/keys/ABIKM) - אביכם
> thy (your) father. [Isaiah 51:2](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/51-2.htm). A reference to Abraham, also a link between Chokmah and אב [Ab](/keys/AB), Father. Another name for the [number 2](2).

---

### [Gimel (Letter-name)](/keys/GML) - גמל
> Camel. In one sense, the scroll of the [High Priestess](/keys/G) is the record of past events which becomes the basis of future recompense. What is on the scroll therefore corresponds to what Hindu philosophy calls the Samskaras or impressions which become the "seeds of Karma." These impressions are the "load" carried by the "camel" on its journey from East, the plane of causation, to West, the plane of manifestation. Gimel, the camel stands for the working power whereby all we do is accomplished and whereby all that is done to us is accomplished. Also the universal substance of subconsciousness which unites all things through memory. The High Priestess represents the Lesser Chokmah or feminine aspect of the Cosmic Wisdom. Like the Gnostic Sophia, she stands for the perfect self-recollection and self-knowledge of the one being.

> The scroll of cosmic memory is read by the Magus through equilibrated faith by works [ל], dependence on the One Life [מ], and receptivity to Wisdom from above [ג].

> D.D. Bryant: *"It would not be at all difficult, if you understood nature and her wonderful works, to perform the brilliant feat, the reduction of [argent vive](/latin?word=argent+vive) [living silver] to philosophical mercury, as out ancient breather did, but now, as Norton hints, you need not soil your hands, unless curious to do so. If you watch early, for Diana at her bath in the morning, before her maidens have awakened, or late in the evening, after they have retired, you may easily take her off guard, but be sure to put a gag in her mouth, lest she cry aloud and you are foiled in your attempt."*

> Dr Case comments: *"Diana is Luna = גמל [Gimel](/keys/GML) = 73 = [Chokmah](/keys/ChKMH) חכמה. In the Tarot she is the High Priestess. She must be taken early in the morning before her maidens, i.e. attendant servants, have awakened, or in the evening, when they have retired. She is the subjective mind, which is especially susceptible to suggestion at the moment between sleep and awakening, or between waking and sleeping. See Leyland's Mystic Will. The gag in her mouth is a reference to the overcoming of habitual states of the subjective mind which tend to oppose counter-suggestions"*

---

### [gamal](/keys/GML) - גמל
> (verb) to do, to show, to cause to, to deal adequately with; to bring to an end or limit; to ripen, to become ripe; to give according to desert; to reward, to recompense, to benefit. In human thinking, this relates to the future inasmuch as we think of the end, or ripening, of the cosmic process as being something ahead of us in time.

---

### [khasah](/keys/ChSH) - חסה
> to seek protection, to take refuge, to trust. To take refuge in Wisdom is the way of the true sage.

---

### [yom tob](/keys/IVM.TVB) - יום טוב
> a day of feast; literally: "day of good." *"The camel which bears rich merchandise of the Life-power s knowledge of itself brings us the treasure of divine wisdom. In that wisdom we may put our trust. So the Hierophant is shown sitting at the gate of a sanctuary. Every day is a feast day, a day of good, for he who partakes of this wisdom. Without wisdom there is no good; with it all is good, and all is peace."* [Gematria of the Letter- Names].

---

### [kachmah](/keys/KChMH) - כחמה
> "The power of what?" designates the Power of Formation. Power or substance, (כח) of Mah (מה). Kachmah is a term associated with world of formation, Yetzirah. Kachmah is a power whose essential nature is open to question, or unknown. Yet not altogether unknown, because Mah is furthermore the secret name of the world of formation. Mah (מה) adds to [45](45), which is also the number of Adam (אדם) man. Qabalists understand that this unknown power which is rooted in the Wisdom of Chokmah is also a power distinctly human. The object of quest in occult science is the true nature of man. In the knowledge of this true nature lays the secret of the Master Jesus. Alchemically Sulphur (attributed to Chokmah) is the "power of Formation" because it is inherent in the Life-force. The universal Sulphur is said to be the light from which all particular Sulphurs proceed.

> *"For the soule the bodie form doth take--for soule is forme, and doth the bodie make"* [Spencer]

---

### [ka-ehben](/keys/KABN) - כאבן
> "as (or like) a stone." The successful completion of the Great Work combines the powers of Sulphur, Mercury and Salt into the Stone of the Wise (wise is Wisdom or Chokmah). see [53](53).

---

### [nebbiai](/keys/NBIAI) - נביאי
> prophetic. a logical consequence of possessing the "stone of the wise".

---

### [Belial](/keys/BLIAL) - בליאל
> Demon-king of Hod and Night Demon of 2nd (Mercury) decanate Aquarius. Godwin also gives: Qlippoth of Ain Soph.

---

### [Benaiah](/keys/BNIHV) - בניהו
> Benaiah. [2 Samuel 23:20](http://biblehub.com/2_samuel/23-20.htm): *"And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, a valiant man of Kabzeel, who had done many nobel acts, slew two lionlike men of Moab. He went down also and slew a lion in the a pit on a snowy day."*

> The prologue to the Zohar [I:6A, p. 25] Comments: *"Benaiah the son of Jehoiada (i.e. son of God, son of knowing God) contains an allusion to wisdom, And is a symbolic appellation which influences its bearer."* Because בניהו contains בן [ben](/keys/BN) = son = 52, an appellation of Tiphareth, combined with יהו [Yaho](/keys/IHV), the name celebrated in Sepher Yetzirah, in connection with the manifestation of the six directions. יהו [Yaho](/keys/IHV) = 21 = [Eheyeh](/keys/AHIH) אהיה, the Kether divine name. [52](52) + [21](21) = [73](73) = [chokmah](/keys/ChKMH) חכמה, Wisdom.

---

### [Gawlil](/keys/GLIL) - גליל
> Galilee, "the rolling sun" [Inman]; District in northern Palestine where Jesus performed the marriage miracle at Cana. [Joshua 20:7](http://biblehub.com/joshua/20-7.htm): *"And they appointed Kedesh in Galilee in Mount Naphtali (Virgo, 570)."* see [86](86) (Greek)

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [charitas](/latin?word=charitas) (Lt)
> charity (see secret symbols page 51). Practical wisdom invariably express itself in words of charitable service, and also in that mental attitude of acceptance mentioned by Lincoln: "Charity for all, Malice toward none."

Alternate spelling. See [caritas](/latin?word=caritas), [65](65).

---

### [columba alba](/latin?word=columba+alba) (Lt)
> White dove. This is from "The Chemical Marriage of Christian Rosenkreutz," and occurs also in other alchemical works. Note the symbolism on the shield of Venus in the Tarot.

---

### [interna](/latin?word=interna) (Lt)
> inner. A word describing the true source of reality, the "Inner Light". see [122](122), [49](49) (Lt); [620](620), [397](397).

---

### [visita](/latin?word=visita) (Lt)
> visit. Part of the phrase in Secret Symbols (p. 17) "Visit the interior of the earth, by rectifying you shall find the hidden stone." see [570](570).

---

### [favonio](/latin?word=favonio) (Lt)
> west, west-wind. The direction of Jupiter, and of manifestation on the Cube of Space. Part of the Rosicrucian saying: *"From east to west and everywhere, the good root of David reigns victorious."* see [509](509) (Lt), [72](72), [20](20).

---

### [nigror](/latin?word=nigror) (Lt)
> blackness. "The sage says that a wild beast is in the forest, whose skin is of..."s [text missing]

---

### [Damascus](/latin?word=damascus) (Lt)
Damascus. The place where the hero of the Rosicrucian allegory prepared for his crossing of Arabia for Damcar. See [444](444)

---

### See Also:

- [10](10)
