## 74 - Seventy-Four
2x37

---

### [Lamed](/keys/LMD) - למד
> Letter name Lamed. Ox-goad; to teach, instruct, to train. Derived from a verb spelled the same way signifying primarily "to beat with a rod", hence, "to discipline, to train, to teach." As a noun [Limmud](/keys/LMD) is used in [Isaiah 50:4](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/50-4.htm) to designate prophets, and applies particularly to Chasidim. *[Gematria PFC]*

> *It is impossible for a being capable of thus partaking of the infinite life of the origination spirit to be a mere piece of mechanism, mechanically incapable of moving in more than one direction; for he is to reproduce in his individuality that power of origination and initiative which must be the very essence of the creative spirit's recognition of itself he mus possess a corresponding liberty of choice. As to the way in which he will use his powers; and if he chooses wrongly and the inevitable law of cause and effect must produce the natural consequences of his choice. [Thomas Troward, Bible Mystery and Bible Meaning, p256]*

> Also:

> - [Lahmed](/keys/LMD) as a verb: to learn, study, to execise in; to be accustomed.

---

### [Ade](/keys/OD) - עד
> All the way, constantly; the veiled or hidden time; eternity. The ox-goad of Lamed guides man all the way to the ultimate goal. As a preposition and conjunction: to, unto, up to, also; ere. **עד** Ade implies a passing, progress, in space; also duration in time. Hence, perpetual time, eternity. Suggest also the formulation of some problem, based on appearances (Ayin) and the solution of that problem by an act of creative imagination (Daleth). The idea of definite limit is suggested by the meanings of **עד** as a preposition and a conjunction. THe scales of Justice imply the notion of comparison. Ayin and Daleth represent the influences of Saturn (Ayin), which is exalted in Libra, and of Venus (Daleth), Libra's ruler. In another sense **עד** is the astral light representing duration, everlastingness, eternity. It is from **ידה**, [Yiddeh](/keys/IDH), to pass over, to come upon, to go on, to continue. It has a 2nd meaning: to put on, to adorn oneself, and this agrees with the deeper meaning of **עד** Ade as the universal agent... [Ade](/keys/OD): witness, testimony, evidence; menstruation (unsure if this is correct). *[Gematria PFC]*

> _Eternity (which must be taken into account if we are to arrive at any adequate conception of Justice)_ [Gematria of the Letter-names]

> _**עד** Ade. The sign of material sense, contracted with the root **אד** Ad, symbol of relative unity, image of every emanation and every division, constitutes a very important root which , hieroglyphically, develops the idea of time, and of all things temporal, sentient(?), transitory. Symbolically and figuratively it is worldly voluptuousness, sensual pleasure in opposition to spiritual pleasure; in a more restricted sense, every limited period, every periodic return. The Arabic [word], which is related in general to the radical sense of the Hebrew, signifies in particular to count, number, calculate etc.; the [Arabic] word: the time which follows the actual time; tomorrow._

> _**עד** Ade: the actual time; a fixed point in time or space expressed by the relations to, until, near: a same state continued, a temporal duration, expressed in like manner by, now, while, still; a periodic return as a month; a thing constant, certain, evident, palpable, by which one can give testimony; a witness._ [Fabre D'Olivet, The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p414]

---

### [Sabeeb](/keys/SBIB) - סביב
> A circle, orbit, circuit, the place round about, environs. The instruction of the One Teacher is like a Goad (Lamed) which guides one through the long circuit of existence until one returns to union with God. The course traced by a moving body, such as a wheel, hence related to [Key 11](11), the consequence of [Key 10](10). The idea behind the word is the completion of a cycle of activity. In every circle, andy point on the circumference may be both beginning and end. This is the idea behind Karma--the idea that any force sent out returns eventually to its point of origin. A fundamental law of manifestation, operative throughout the universe.

> Circuitous course, a refernce to that form of meditation in which the mind makes a circuit around a central idea *[Gematria PFC]*

S=Prop B=House I=Hand B=House. This indicates both erecting a structure and testing it to make sure it will stand.

---

### [dikkane](/keys/DKN) - דכן
> this, the same, this specifically. An Aramaic demonstrative pronoun suggesting particular identity. It has the connotation of exact and specific identification. This, and no other. Thus it implies definite knowledge.

---

### [higgawyon](/keys/HGIVN) - הגיון
> meditation, intention, musing, device; thought, contemplation, resounding music (later Hebrew), reading, recitation of text, logic-one of the 7 liberal arts. Meditation is the device through which we are guided to the divine intention. Meditation requires us to use the goad of attention to hold the mind to the central idea. see [491](491), [67](67)

> Paul Case has the following note in the margin: *"gentle murmur, solemn sound. [Psalm 49:3](http://biblehub.com/psalms/49-3.htm). see [724](724)"*

> In this verse, *("My mouth will speak words of wisdom; the utterance from my heart will give understanding.")* "and-utterance-of" is spelled והגות [vahegut](/keys/VHGVTh) [John Kohlenberger, The Interlinear NIV Old Testament]

---

### [Hadasseh](/keys/HDSH) - הדסה
> Myrtle plant (sacred to Venus). bride; Esther's former name. Esther is the regular Syrian form of the name Ishtar, the Babylonian Goddess corresponding to Astarte, and associated in Babylonian astrology with Venus. Hadassah, is the Hebrew translation of the Babylonian Hadashatu, "bride," used as a title for Ishtar. The significance of "Myrtle," points to the Venusian correspondence, but may be an occult "blind." The theme of the story of Esther, is the triumph of Justice over injustice. But the deeper meaning concerns Babylonian traditions of conflict between the Gods of the Elamites and Babylon. These traditions veil profound doctrines of ageless wisdom. Ayin and Daleth moreover, is the very Venus who is the "Bride", hadashatu, or hadassah. see [80](80).

> *"The central figure if Key 3 in Tarot is Venus, named Aphrodite by the Greeks, who also knew her as Astarte, the same as the Babylonian Ishtar, the עשתרת, [Ashtoreth](/keys/OShThRTh) of the Old Testament. In this connection it is interesting to note that the value of the Greek name, ασταρτη is [910](910), or 13x70, while the value of עשתרת is [1370](1370). Very often we come across little indication like this which show that the wisdom of the eastern world was by no means lost when it was transferred to Europe through Greek. As the New Testament shows, the number-letter system of the Hebrews and Babylonians was adopted by the Gnostics and adapted to the requirements of Greek.*

> *"In the Old Testament, the whole book of Esther is a mine of information about the Semitic conceptions of the Great Mother. The well-known orientalist, A.H. Sayce says: 'Ishtar appears as Esher in the Book of Esther, where Mordecia, it may be noted, is a derivation from Merodach ('the God'). Note that in this Book Esther is the second Queen. The first is Vashti, 'The Beautiful One', who refuses to come forth at the time of the feast, when the common people were assembled at Shushan. Vashti is the high Priestess in Tarot, for she is the hidden one who cannot be drawn forth for display amongst the multitude of ordinary thoughts and perceptions (common people). Esther is the Empress, the 'Starry One'. The scene of the story is laid in [Shushan](/keys/ShVShN) (שושן), and the place-name is ordinarily translated 'Lily'. But the word Shushan, and its feminine equivalent [Sushanah](/keys/ShVShNH) (שושנה), really signifies 'rose', and is so translated in many Qabalistic books. Roses, it will be remembered, are sacred to Aphrodite. Another plant scared to Venus. Furthermore, הדסה [haddaseh](/keys/HDSH) is the number 74, and this is the number of למד, [Lamed](/keys/LMD), the ox-goad, that Hebrew letter which corresponds to Libra, ruled by Venus, and represented in Tarot by the figure of justice. In the story of Esther, Ahasuerus is the unmanifest self, and Mordecai (Marduk or Merodach) is the manifest self. Haman signifies the illusion of separate personality which demands reverence for itself. The Jews are the higher qualities, which were scattered through the lower nature. Such is the psychological interpretation. There are many other occult meanings in this book, which is recognized by all Qabalist as being packed with esotericism."* [Paul Case: Classics of Ageless Wisdom, 1931, pp. 23-24]

---

### [yawsad](/keys/ISD) - יסד
> laws; to set, place, to found, to appoint; to set laws, to ordain. This verb is the root of yesod. As a noun יסד, foundation, base, in principle, or beginning. Also יסד, yesud; beginning commencement. [Ezra 7:9](http://biblehub.com/ezra/7-9.htm): *"For on the first month they began to go up from Babylon, and on the first day of the fifth month they came to Jerusalem, according to the hand of God which had been good to them."*

---

### [neked](/keys/NKD) - נכד
> progeny, hence descendent, grandson. [Genesis 21:23](http://biblehub.com/genesis/21-23.htm): *"So now, swear to me here by God that you will not deal falsely with me, or with my son, or with my posterity, but as I have dealt with you kindly, you will do the same with me and the land in which you have sojourned."*

---

### [gihon](/keys/GIHVN) - גיהון
> "a stream"; The name of the second river of Eden, associated with water. Variant spelling, according to Godwin. see [77](77), [724](724).

> [Genesis 2:13](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-13.htm) *"The second river in the Garden of Eden is the Gihon; it winds through the entire land of Chush."* see [77](77), [446](446), [142](142), [680](680); [1560](1560), [623](623), [1514](1514) (Greek).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [ai diathekai](/greek?word=ai+diathhkai) (Gr) - αἱ διαθῆκαι
> The covenants. divine agreements. [Romans 9:4](http://biblehub.com/romans/9-4.htm): *"Who are Israelites; to whom pertaineth the adoption, and the glory, and the covenants, and the giving of the law, and the service of God, and the promises"*

---

### [Adytum](/latin?word=Adytum) (Lt)
> Sanctuary. Holy of holies. The "house of God" in any temple. In the human brain, it is the organ through which established contact with the One Identity. The functioning of this center comes about when the Ego in Tiphareth links up with the volitional power in Geburah. Lamed carries the influence of [Mezla](/keys/MZLA), specialized as Justice ([Deen](/keys/DIN)), between the two Sephiroth. see [126](126), [825](825), [72](72), [Abeignus](72).

---

### [Angus Dei](/latin?word=Angus+Dei) (Lt)
> Lamb of God. This is the "Lamb" clearly indicated by the initials which are used in the Fama to designate the Founder (compare [yasad](/keys/ISD)) of the Rosicrucian Order, whose initials are כר, [Kar](/keys/KR), Lamb. In Revelation, the Lamb is the symbol of Christ. The lamb sits on the throne at the center of the cubical city of the new Jerusalem. The Lamb is said to be both the temple and the lamp of the city. The city itself is a symbol of regenerated humanity, and of a society composed of regenerated persons. see [56](56), [18](18), [134](134) (Lt).

---

### [Axiomata](/latin?word=Axiomata) (Lt)
> Axioms. This word is used in the Fama, which connects Axiomata with eternal duration **עד**, by saying "We are assured that our Axiomata shall immovably remain until the world's end." The same book says the Axiomata were the most important item in the philosophical library of the order. They are also declared to be "true and infallible".

---

### [Concordia](/latin?word=Concordia) (Lt)
> Concord, harmony. The result of true Justice. The path of Lamed connects the sphere of beauty and harmony (Tiphareth). Concord is from two latin words meaning "same-heart", con-cord.

---

### [Rota Jehovah](/latin?word=Rota+Jehovah)
> **Rota יהוה** The wheel of the Lord. Letters inscribed on [Key 10: Wheel of Fortune](10). See [26](26), [48](48).

---

### [Dei Gloria](/latin?word=Dei+Gloria) (Lt)
> The Glory of God. Part of the Rosicrucian motto: "The Untouchable Glory of God." see 56. The "Glory" is the "lamb" as well as the "adytum".

> Note the numbering of Dei Gloria. Dei is [18](18), which corresponds to the Hebrew Chai **חי**, Gloria is [56](56) or 6 less than [Sophia](/latin?word=sophia)... 18 and 56 add to 74, which is the value of **למד**, but as you can see from Rota, the power of the INtact Virgin, who is also Sophia, or Wisdom, is in Rota represented by the woman in Justice, and she is both the Bride and the Queen, and thus she is also AIMA, MAIH, ISIS, EVE, and all the rest of the host of Anima figures, including the Window and Venus. *[36th Communication 2/23/48]*

---

### [Matrix](/latin?word=Matrix) (Lt)
> Foundation. see [64](64), [82](82), [156](156)

---

### [Mortem](/latin?word=Mortem) (Lt)
> Death. The mysteries have to do with the overcoming of death. Part of a phrase in Secret Symbols. see [717](717).

---

### See also

- [11](11)
- [2](2)


