## 75 - Seventy-Five
> (3x5x5)

---

### [gabaw](/keys/GBO) - גבע
> Hill.

---

### [Hayllale](/keys/HILL) - הילל
> Brightness, morning star; Lucifer. [Isaiah 14:12](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/14-12.htm): *"How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning!"*

---

### [yelawlaw](/keys/ILLH) - יללה
> Howling, wailing, lamentation. [Zephaniah 1:10](http://biblehub.com/zephaniah/1-10.htm): *"there shall be the noise of a cry from the fish gate, and an howling from the second, and a great crashing from the hills."*

---

### [Kimah](/keys/KIMH) - כימה
> a Cluster; the Pleiades; the 7 stars. [[Job 9:9; 38:31, Amos 5:8](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Job+9%3A9%2C+38%3A31%2C+Amos+5%3A8&version=AKJV;WLC)]. Exoterically, the Pleiades. Esoterically, the 7 interior stars pictured on [Key 17](17).

---

### [kohen](/keys/KHN) - כהן
> Priest; one who is a conscious mediator for divinity. see [Genesis 14:18](http://biblehub.com/genesis/14-18.htm). see [657](657), [1667](1667), [2879](2879), [886](886)

---

### [laylah](/keys/LILH) - לילה
> a twist, a spiral turn (away from the light); Night. [Genesis 1:5](http://biblehub.com//.htm). Figuratively it means adversity. see [3](3), [12](12), [21](21), [30](30), [39](39), [48](48), [57](57), [66](66), [84](84), [56](56), [79](79).

> > Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"לילה, Night... The formation of the word of demands particular attention. Refer to Radical Vocabulary, root לא, לו and לל. It is the amalgamation of these three roots that forms the word in question. The words naught and knot, holding to the same root as the word night, portray very felicitously the figurative and hieroglyphic sense attached to the Hebrew word לילה...* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 35](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/35)]

> > *לא This root is a symbol of the line prolonged to infinity, of movement without term, of action whose duration is limitless: thence, the opposed ideas of being and nothingness, which it uses in developing the greater part of it compounds...* [[p. 377](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/377)]

> > *לו. Every idea of liaison, cohesion, tendency of objects toward each other. The universal bond. The abstract line which is conceived going from one point to another and which is represented by the relations, oh if! oh that! would to God that!...* [[p. 379](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/379)]

> > *לל. The sign of extensive movement being opposed to itself, composes a root which gives the idea of circular movement: in the same manner as one sees in natural philosophy, this movement springs from two opposed forces, one drawing to the center, and the other drawing away from it.* [[p. 382](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/382)]

> Gaskel says that night is *"A symbol of potential being, or of the cycle of life in the underworld-the planes of the quaternary, where in the Higher Self (sun) is unapparent to the lower consciousness."* [Dictionary of All Scriptures and Myths, p. 535]

---

### [Yehudim](/keys/IHVDIM) - יהודים
> the Jews; connected with the seven interior stars. see [1048](1048)

---

### [kahnnawh](/keys/KNH) - כנה
> the stock (of a plant). [Psalm 80:15](http://biblehub.com/psalms/80-15.htm): *"And the vineyard which thy right hand hath planted, and the branch (stock) that thou madest strong for thyself."* In this passage the word (with the prefix Vav) occurs as copied here with a large kaph, indicating its importance. Note that the vine as the plant includes the branches. Also כנה plant, shoot; stand ruler; כנה: to give a name, give a title; to surname, nickname; to express by a substitute.

---

### [geoonay](/keys/GVVNI) - גווני
> hues, colors, complexions. The alchemical "peacock" or auric rainbow; part of the process of the great work.

---

### [Yekadiel](/keys/IKDIAL) - יכדיאל
> "Vessel of God", an angel whose sigil is depicted in Key of Solomon, figure 52. It alludes to the earthy vessel of the alchemist. see [24](24).

---

### [Nuit](/keys/NVIT) - נויט
> Hebrew spelling of the Egyptian goddess of the sky, mother of Isis and Osiris; deity of the firmament and he rain; personification of the morning, one the great gods at Helioplis (City of the Sun).

---

### [lawcham](/keys/LHM) - להם
> to consume, hence, to destroy. see למו, [76](76), [539](539).

---

### [Hadad ben-bedad](/keys/HDD.BN-BDD) - הדד בן־בדד
> Hadad, Son of Bedad. A king of Edom, associated with Tiphareth. In [Genesis 36:35](http://biblehub.com/genesis/36-35.htm): *"And Husham died, and Hadad son of Bedad, who defeated Midian in the Country of Moab, succeeded him as King. His city was named Avith."* Note that Edom signifies unbalanced force, and that the Qipphoth of Tiphareth are called the "Haggler". see [45](45), [1081](1081), [725](725)

---

## Latin/Greek:

---

### [matrix](/latin?word=matrix) (Lt)
> the womb. The whirling inner energy is the womb from which illumination emerges.

---

### [membrum](/latin?word=membrum) (Lt)
> the phallus. The organ of generation and center of the reproductive energy.

---

### [Oblivio](/latin?word=Oblivio) (Lt)
> The river Lethe in the lower world, said to bring forgetfulness (see [55](55) Greek).

---

### [signum](/latin?word=signum) (Lt)
> A sign. Part of a Rosicrucian saying (see [518](518)). Out of the Darkness of oblivion and the womb of night, the stars shine forth, as on Christmas eve.

---

### [artifex](/latin?word=artifex) (Lt)
> art; skilled, clever; skillfully made. A worker, a craftsman in a particular art; a maker, master of, expert at anything; creator. To be a builder of the adytum it to follow the admonition of the Great Work expressed in the Emerald Tablet, "Thou shalt separate the Earth from the Fire, the subtle from the gross, suavely and with great ingenuity."

---

### [sapiens](/latin?word=sapiens) (Lt)
> wise, thinking. By implication, one who is imbued with the Wisdom, of Life-Force of Chokmah, which is also the fire of mind. see [73](73)

---

### [rosa caeli](/latin?word=rosa+caeli) (Lt)
> rose of heaven; heavenly rose. The rose is a symbol of the Higher Self. see [47](47), [28](28) (Latin).

> This is the title of a plate in A.E. Waite's Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross. He writes: *"The solar rose in centered in the glory of the sun, and the Christ of Nazareth is centered in the celestial flower. From Geheime Figuren [Secret Symbols, p. 8, subtitled "Harmonious conception of the light of nature, form which you can deduce the restoration and renovation of all things emblematic."] It is the Rosicrucian adaptation of Khunrath's Christ of Glory... in the deep understanding of Rosicrucian doctrine, the Rose is also the soul, and in the marriage life of this union there is no distinction between the soul and the word within the modes of realization."* [pp. XIX-XX]

---

### English Gematria:

- [Carbuncle](/english?word=Carbuncle) *([Fama Intro p.22](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n22))*
- [Nature](/english?word=nature) *([Fama p.1](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/1), [p.2](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/2), [p.4](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/4))*

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
