## 77 - Seventy-Seven
> (7x11). A rectangle with a: Width = 5, length = 12, diagonal = 13. The perimeter, 2 diagonals, horizontal and vertical dividing lines add to 77.

---

### [mezal](/keys/MZL) - 
> planet, wanderer. Singular of MZLVTh (483). Also constellation, destiny, fate, angel of destiny; fortune, luck. "the influence from Kether." [Hebrew Lexicon] In "Lesser Holy Assembly (7:14) Mathers translates this word "influence." see Mezla (78).

---

### [oz](/keys/OZ) - 
> strength, power, might; courage, boldness. As an adjective Ayz, meaning: strong, mighty, fierce, cruel; bright (of color); pungent, acrid, sharp (of tasted). Mathers says OZ gives the idea of foundational power to this influence (MZL). [Perhaps related to the attributes of the true "Wizard of Oz."]

---

### [boah](/keys/BOH) - 
> prayed.

---

### [babayeh](/keys/BOH) - 
> to ask, inquire, to boil, seethe; to eat up (of grazing animal). Variant of IBOH.

---

### [zidon, zaydon](/keys/ZIDVN) - 
> overflowing. [Psalm 124:5]. Note that in the Hebrew text it is (H)ZIDVNIM which is plural (adjective) to match HMIM which precedes it. Judge Troward, commenting on Psalm 124 days: *"This Psalm shows that the source of power in the recognition that God is on our side. 'if God be for us, who can be against us?' (Ruth VIII, 31; Psalm 118:6; 13A.50:8 and 9). We get God on our side by putting ourselves on the side of God, 1.8., we work from the principle of interior (divine) power, realizing that this primary action always takes place on the interior plane and assuming. The love and intelligence and impersonality of God, both as our starting point and as the continuous causa causans at every moment. 'Our help is the name of the Lord-how can a name help? 'The name of the Lord is a strong tower: The righteous runneth into it and is safe (Proverbs 18:10). The answer is that this name is IHVH."* Paul Case: (doubtless sufficient for T.T., as for me, this requiring much elucidation for less instructed readers") [Troward on Psalm, pp. 163-164]

---

### [gihon](/keys/GIHVN) - 
> The name of the 2nd river of Eden, that which compasses the whole land of Cush [Genesis 2:13]. see [326](326), [702](702), [142](142), [446](446), [1068](1068), [680](680), [1560](1560), [858](858).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"GIHVN Gihon.. (from the) root GH. This root is employed here in the intensive verbal from which the augmenatative syllable VN...(p. 80) GH... The organic sign united... to that of manifestation (Heh), constitutes a root which becomes the symbol of every organization. This root which possesses the same faculties of extension and aggrandizement that we have observed in the root GA, contains ideas apparently opposed to envelopment and development according to the point of view under which one considers the organization."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 311-312]

---

### [eyz](/keys/OZ) - 
> goat, goat hair. Relates to Capricorn and Saturn.

---

### [Aulawm](/keys/AVLM) - 
> The vestibule or entrance hall to the temple. Suggest preparation for entry into the holy place of this power. see [358](358), [65](65), [216](216), [637](637).

---

### [megidahl](/keys/MGDL) - 
> tower, turret, elevated stage, pulpit, raised garden bed; cupboard; castle, lighthouse; rook (in chess). Connected with the tower of Babel [Genesis 11:4] "and a tower with its top in Heaven." Wrongly used, this implies the crown of false will-power, struck by lighting as in [Key 16](16). see [988](988).

---

## Latin/Greek:

---

### [H.C.](/latin?word=H.C.) (Lt)
> (Mystic name of) Fas Ducit "(Divine) Law or Command Draws (or leads) Him."

---

### [moralls](/latin?word=moralls) (Lt)
> moral. The basis of occult morality is faithful obedience to the actual laws of God, rather than outward adherence to the customs, taboos, or conventions of a particular historical period or those accepted by some group of persons (see 193, 115 Latin).

---

### [vivum](/latin?word=vivum) (Lt)
> As spelled in the phrase "Living silver." see [166](166), [89](89) Latin.

---

### English Gematria:

- [Damascus](/english?word=Damascus) *([Fama Intro p.13](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13/mode/2up))*

---

### See Also:

- [14](14)
- [5](5)
