## 78 - Seventy-Eight
> (2x3x13) Σ12 = 78. 78 is the sum of the numbers from 1 to 12, so that 78 stands for the completion of the Great Work with its 12 "labors," of Hercules. (Great Work L15)

> 3x26 or the 3 fold extension of IHVH.

Total number of cards in the Tarot deck.

---

### [mezla](/keys/MZLA) - מזלא
> to drip, to flow down in drops; holy influence, whirling, radiant energy (which descends from Chokmah). Divine Grace. The conscious energy that flows through all things. Mezla is a whirling force, and in its physical expression is the spiraling electro-magnetic energy, the substance from which the atoms of the physical universe are created, via electrons and protons. The 3 simultaneous projections of this force from Kether are to Chokmah (via Aleph), Binah (via Beth), and Tiphareth (via Gimel). The 3 worlds of emanation proceeding from Atziluth, which is the Limitless Light as spiritual fire, the support of all that is in manifestation. see [483](483), [620](620), [111](111), [507](507), [578](578), [876](876), [536](536).

> "Now, consider the influence that flows through the Tree of Life. It is named מזלא, [Mezla](/keys/MZLA), and this word is 78, the sum of the numbers from 1 to 12. For this reason there are 78 Tarot Keys. Now, 78 is by reduction [15](15), and this is the number of יה, [Jah](/keys/IH), which is the name of חכמה, [Chokmah](/keys/ChKMH), the Sphere of the Zodiac which is represented by the number 12; and 15 is by reduction 6, the number of Vav, and also the number of תפארת, [Tiphareth](/keys/ThPARTh). For without the Logos in Tiphareth, nothing can come into manifestation. [Commentary-14th Communication 6/2/47]

---

### [Enoch](/keys/ChNK) - חנך
> Initiated; an Old Testament name. Name of the patriarch who "walked with God."

---

### [lechem](/keys/LChM) - לחם
> bread, food, a feast. The host or body of Messiah. Christ was born in Beth-Lechem "The House of Bread." Also: לחם, to eat bread, take food; to fight, do battle and לחם war). The bread is the wafer used in the Eucharist to symbolize "This is my body" (see [Genesis 14:18](http://biblehub.com/genesis/14-18.htm) where Melchizedek brought forth bread and wine). This body is also the tree as well as the Christos, the support and sustenance of Man. Mezla, the true substance. The birth-place of Jesus ("reality liberates") is said to be Bethlechem, or Bethlehem, the "house of Bread" or Virgo region of Virgin birth. see [490](490), [800](800), [581](581) (note -- parable of loaves and fishes), [671](671) (Greek), [638](638), [1110](1110).

> Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 12] cites [Psalm 78:25](http://biblehub.com/psalms/78-25.htm): *"Men ate the bread of angels; He [i.e. God] sent them all the food they could eat."*

> Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p. 500] gives: panis, and says it commonly refers to Malkuth. he cites [1 Kings 13:18](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/13-18.htm): *"The old propher answerd, I too am a prophet, as you are. And an angel said to me by the word of the Lord: Bring him back with you to your house so that he may eat bread and drink water. (but he was lying to him)."* Rosenroth says that others say that לחם is Vav, which is in Tiphareth. A discussion follows.

> [Genesis 14:18](http://biblehub.com/genesis/14-18.htm): *"Then Melchizedek King of Salem brought forth bread and wine; he was priest of God most high."*

---

### [kholem](/keys/ChLM) - חלם
> breaker, to bind; to dream, to see visions. suggests the breaking up of the mental complexes portrayed in [Key 16](16) and also the awakened inner vision which can emerge from it.

---

### [melakh](/keys/MLCh) - מלח
> salt; sea, to subsist. From the verb: to flow, to dissolve, to vanish away. Aramaic to subsist. Substance or manifestation is really an eternal flux. Name of the 3rd alchemical principal, or tamasguna.

> Mrs. Atwood writes: *"The salt [מלח = 78 = מזלא] of Saturn, [Shabbathai](/keys/ShBThAI), [שבתאי = [713](713)], the universal son of nature, has reigned, does reign, and will reign naturally and universally in all things; always and every where universal through its own feasibility, self-existent in nature. Hear and attend! Salt, that most ancient principle of the stone; whose nucleus in the decad guard in holy silence. Let him who hath understanding understand; I have spoken it -- not without weighty cause has salt been dignified with the name of wisdom, החכמה, [ha-Chokmah](/keys/HChKMH), "the wisdom" [החכמה = 78 = מלח]: than which, together with the sun, nothing is found more useful."* (from Khunrath). [A Suggestive inquiry into Alchemy, pp. 391-392]

---

### [Beth/Yod](/keys/B.I) - ב י
> Mercury in Virgo.

---

### [hawmal](/keys/ChML) - חמל
> to spare, have pity, have compassion. Relates to חסד, [Chesed](/keys/ChSD). see [72](72), also: חמל, pity, compassion.

---

### [yabinu](/keys/IBINV) - יבינו
> shall understand. The influx of Mezla through Mercy and Severity brings the understanding of all manifestation (Binah). see [52](52)

---

### [Kadmadi](/keys/KDMDI) - כדמדי
> Angel of the 1st decanate of Taurus. Relates to Key 5 and intuition.

---

### [Zaumael](/keys/ZMAL) - זמאל
> Angel of Mars. Refers to the Mars force.

---

### [haikal ahebah](/keys/HIKL.AHBH) - היכל אהבה
> Literally, "Palace or temple of love". Briatic (creative) palace of Chesed. A key to becoming like Enoch.

---

### [Yezelial](/keys/IZLAL) - יזלאל
> 13th Shemhamphorash; Angel of 2 of Swords. "God glorified by all things." 61°-65°. THÉSOLK. ?Jupiter? April 1, June 12, August 23, September 3, January 14. 4:00-4:20 AM. [Psalm 98:4](http://biblehub.com/psalms/98-4.htm). Rules amity, reconciliation, and conjugal fidelity. Persons born: Apprehends all that he desires [text continues but missing].

> Godwin gives: Yezalel; angel of 1st quinance (1°-5°) of Libra; angel by day of the 2 of Swords. This represents the influence of the zodiacal forces in the Formative pattern-world.

---

### [nekahch](/keys/NKCh) - נכח
> front, in front of, over against. [Ezekiel 46:9](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/46-9.htm): *"But when the people of the land shall come before the Lord at the time of the solemn feast, he who enters by way of the north gate to worship shall go out by the way of the south gate; and he who enters by way of the south gate shall go out by the way of the north gate; he shall not return by the way of the gate by which he came in, but shall go over against it."*

> Also: "detours, opposite to, in regard to, in behalf. [Ezekiel 14:7](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/14-7.htm) *"For every one of the House of Israel, or of the proselytes who dwell in Israel, who departs from me and sets up idols in his heart and puts the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face and comes to a prophet to inquire of him, I the Lord will be a witness against him."*

---

### [cabbon](/keys/KBVN) - כבון
> name, according to Inman, which signifies "?on? is round, from an old root כבב, [cabab](/keys/KBB), he is round. Gesenius, thinks that the word signifies a cake , while Furst considers it equivalent to a hamlet or circle of ?huts? [Joshua 15:40](http://biblehub.com/joshua/15-40.htm) *"And Cabbon, and Lahman, Kitlish,"*

---

### [Mebahal](/keys/MBHAL) - מבהאל
> Godwin gives: Mebahel; angel of the 2nd quinance (6°-10°) of Libra; angel by night of the 2 of Swords. This represents the operation of Chokmah, sphere of the zodiac, in Yetzirah, the Formative world. Davidson adds that his corresponding angel is THESOGAR.

---

### [Aumial](/keys/AVMAL) - אומאל
> According to Godwin: Auamel; angel of the 6th quinance (26°-30°) of Sagittarius; angel by night of the 10 of Wands. This represents the operation of Malkuth, the physical plane in Atziluth, the Archetypal World of ideas. Davidson gives: Omael, and says "omael was of the order of Dominations.. whether Omael is fallen or still upright is difficult to determine from the information available. He seems to operate in both domains (Heaven and Hell)." [Dictionary of Angels, p. 212]

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [libertas](/latin?word=libertas) (Lt)
[freedom](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=libertas), liberty; frankness of speech, outspokenness.

> *"The will of man divides itself similarly into seven powers... The fifth is the capacity for deciding for or against a thing, liberty--**libertas**"* [[Karl von Eckartshausen, The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary, letter VI](cloud-upon-sanctuary)]

---

### [appetere](/latin?word=appetere) (Lt)
[seek/grasp after](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=appetere), desire; assail; strive eagerly/long for; approach, near;

> *"Our heart is also reformed in like manner, when in everything... (2) we wish for Him only--**appetere.**"* [[Karl von Eckartshausen, The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary, letter VI](cloud-upon-sanctuary)]

---

### [Librum M](/latin?word=Librum+M) (Lt)
Book M. See [53](53), [380](380), [480](480), [685](685).

---

### English Gematria:

- [correct](/english?word=correct) *([Fama Intro p.13](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13/mode/2up))*

---

### See Also:

- [15](15)
- [6](6)

