## 80 - Eighty
> 2x5x8. The robe on [Key 0](0), The Fool, bears the sign of the alchemical Quintessence, an 8-spoked wheel, 10 times repeated. Suggesting that the spiritual essences of the 10 Sephiroth are part of the vesture or veil of THAT which the Fool really it. The path of Aleph is the very essence of Kether itself, and Kether is naught but the concentration of אין, [En](/keys/AIN) (naughtness), into the Simple Point. *[The Gematria Notebooks of Paul Foster Case]*

### [Yesod](/keys/ISVD) - יסוד
> Foundation. [The Ninth Sephirah](9). The Purified Intelligence. The automatic consciousness or the reproductive activity of the Mars force. ([More >>](yesod))

### [Peh](/keys/P) - פ
The mouth, as the organ of speech. The alphabetical symbol of Mars (action).

> *"The Peh consists of a Kaph with a Yod suspended inside it; the Kaph stands for practical action, while the Yod represents wisdom. Thus, the letter Peh represents a spiritual quality (wisdom) contained within the proper vessel for its practical realization... It also denotes productivity and accomplishment, which results through mental or physical efforts, unlike Yod, which stands for "hand" indicating power and possession."* [Rabbi Munk - The Wisdom of the Hebrew Alphabet]

> *"Why is the letter Cheth assigned to the 'function of speech,' and Peh  to 'the mouth as the organ of speech?' Words that originate in the mouth can never protect, and only exhibit the negative side of Mars, aggression. Words that originate from the Divine used the mouth to excite grace."* [Rabbi Kardia, Simple Stories from the Heart]

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"This character as consonant, belongs to the labial sound, and possesses two distinct articulations: by the First P, it is joined to the character Beth or B, of which it is a reinforcement; by the second PH, it is joined to the character Vav become consonant and pronounced V or F. As symbolic image it represents the mouth of man, whose most beautiful attributed it depicts, that of uttering his thoughts. As grammatical sign, it is that of speech, and of that which is related thereunto. The Hebrew does not employ it as article; but everything proves that many of the Egyptians used it in this way and thus confounded it with its analogue Beth, by a peculiar affectation of the pronunciation. Perhaps also a certain dialect admitted it at the head of words as emphatic article in place of the relation PH; this appears all the more probable, since in Hebrew, a fairly large quantity of words exist where it remains such..."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.422-423]

> *"The heart of **נפש,** Nephesh, is the letter Peh, and this path carrieth the power of Netzach into Hod. From Geburah, the Sphere of Madim, the Holy Mezla descendeth into Tiphareth through the path of action, the sharp goad of Lamed. Yet is this path of Lamed of the quality of Nogah.*

> *Then from Tiphareth the Holy Mezla descendeth into the Sphere of Nogah throug hthe path of change, the path of Nun. Thus from the Sphere of Madim the channel beginneth with Nogah, then taketh on the form of Madim to enter the Sphere of Nogah; and likewise is the first path from Nogah a path of Madim.*

> *Consider this well, and see how, on the tree, the paths of Daleth and Peh are of like nature, through opposite in appearance. Now see further. peh is the heart of **נפש,** Nephesh, and Peh is also one with **יסוד,** for the number of **פ** is 80, and this is the number of **יסוד.** Truly, **פ** and **ל** are one, for **פ** is **כ** with Yod, as you may see by looking at the character, and **כ** with **י** giveth the number 30. Thus is Lamed a goad, and if this be considered, what is the goad but the power of Madim? And in **יסוד** is concealed **סודי,** Sod Yod, the secret of Yod. Now Yod itself is Kaph, and the Sod Yod is a mystery of the hidden paternal power of Chokmah.* [Qabalistic Text - 10th Communication]

### [Kalal](/keys/KLL) - כלל
> To complete, to finish, to make whole. As a noun: principle, rule, community, total sum; inclusion; generalization, statement of implication. Compare this with the meanings of [9](9), the special number of Yesod. Root word of [Kellali](90), the Collective Intelligence of Resh. see [440](440) *[Gematria PFC]*

### [Sod Yod](/keys/SVD.I) - סוד י
> "Secret of Yod." The Life-force or "Living Gold," or "philosophic gold." Also called **חיה** [Chaiah](23) or radiant energy. It is assimilated from food in the small intestine and charges the blood-stream to provide strength for the 3rd eye **אבן** [Ehben](53) to open. It is the Secret of Wisdom, the secret of **אב** [Ab](3), the divine fatherhood, and of solar radiance (Prana). This descends from Kether as Living Light or LVX. In Yesod this Light and Life takes from as Nephesh (**נפש**), the Vital Soul, common to man and to all lower forms of being. The word secret has double meaning -- Yod specifically symbolizes the phallus. Another Secret is that the ability to reason out ideas and destroy them is an aspect of the reproductive energy. see [21](21).

> They who know the secret of Yod become the extenders of the paternal Life and Light. Thus is Yesod called the Sphere of the Moon, and that same Moon pertaineth also to Gimel, the letter of Union. Blessed are they who hear and understand, and understanding, live as they know.... *[Gematria PFC]*

> Comment: *...There are many who seek to be spiritual at the expense of the body. They repudiate all that pertains to Yesod because they misunderstand its real significance. You may have wondered what this section of the Text has to do with the Astral plane, for there is a spate of words both printed and uttered concerning the astral, mostly based on complete misapprehension. Yet the Text points straight to the one thing, and that is, that the mystery of the 9th Sephirah is a secret of Yod. For competent Qabalists this will be sufficient, and the Text says quite enough to establish certainty, for it points out that Yod is the letter of AB, and dilates upon Chaih, so that one must be a tyro indeed who does not see that the secret has to do with the radiance of the stars, that is with Light, which is one with Life."* [Qabalistic Text and Commentary - 27th Communication 1/15/48]

### [Sawk](/keys/SK) - סך
Thick mass, "multitude," crowd. see [560](560)

> [Psalm 42:5](http://biblehub.com/psalms/42-5.htm): *"There I remember as I pour out my soul: how I used to go with the multitude, leading the procession to the house of God, with shouuts of Joy and Thanksgiving among the festive throngs."*

> Fabre D'Olivet writes: *"סך. The circumferential sign united by contraction to the root אך, image of every restriction and exception, forms a root whose use is to characterize a thing which is round, closed, fitting to contain, to cover, thence סך, a sack, a veil, covering of any sort that which envelops, covers, obstructs. In a figurative sense, the multitude of men which cover the earth; ointment with which the skin is covered and that which closes the pours. The Arabic [word] has preserved few of the expressions which hold to the radical sense. Its principle development spring from the onomatopotic root [Arabic word] which depicts the effect of the effort that one makes in striking. Literally it is striking, a thing to make it yield."* [Hebrew Tongue Restored p. 409]

### [Yah Adonai](/keys/IH.ADNI) - יה אדני
> God of Yesod. Yesod is the Malkuth of Briah, the world of creation. Patterns held in Yesod are formed from the pure substance of Briah. see [15](15), [220](220).

### [ha-Yehudim](/keys/HIHVDIM) - היהודים
> the Jews. [Esther 6:13](http://biblehub.com/esther/6-13.htm). One of many hints that the forces represented by the Tribe of Judah (related to Leo, to Teth, and thus to Fohat) are fundamental in human life.

### [va'ad](/keys/VOD) - ועד
> union, a gathering, a meeting or assembly. Refers to Yesod as being a Sephirah in which are conjoined the influences of the paths above it on the Tree.

### [viade](/keys/VOD) - ועד
> to appoint, to designate.

### [miy Yehudah](/keys/MI.IHVDH) - מי יהודה
> waters of Judah. [Isaiah 48:1](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/48-1.htm). [MI] is a Hebrew figure of speech for semen virilis. This has a connection with the Qabalistic doctrine that Yesod represents the generative organs of the Archetypal Man.

### [yah](/keys/IO) - יע
> shovel for removing ashes. In the Vulgate translation it is given as Forceps. The letters of this word are the Hebrew equivalent of the initials I.O., designating one of the founders of the Rosicrucian order. The "shovel" purifies by removing waste; the "forceps" helps to give birth to the new creature via hot-house or forcing process. see [8](8) (Gav-note), [11](11).

### [Yah Adonai](/keys/IH.ADNI) - יה אדני
> God of Yesod. Yesod is the Malkuth of Briah, the world of Creation. Patterns held in Yesod are formed from the pure substance of Briah. see [15](15), [220](220).

### [kiis](/keys/KS) - כס
> throne. [Exodus 17:16](http://biblehub.com/exodus/17-16.htm). The foundation (stone) of rulership.

### [Hehau](/keys/HHO) - ההע
> 12th Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 6th quinance (26°-30°) of Virgo. see [95](95), [1525](1525).

### [Ay](/keys/OI) - עי
> A town near Bethel; heap ruin. [Psalm 79:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/79-1.htm): *"O God, the nations [GVIM, 59] have invaded our inheritance; they have defiled your Holy Temple, they have reduced Jerusalem to rubble.*

> Fabre D'Olivet says of this root: *"יע Ay. This root is the analogue of the toots עה and עו, whose physical expression it manifest. It is, in general growth, material development; accumulation. The Arabic [word] indicates an overwhelming burden, a fatigue; [Arabic word] signifies to goad."* [Hebrew Tongue Restored p. 417]

### [mam](/keys/MM) - מם
> given, without explanation, by Mathers, in [Sepher
Sephiroth p. 12]. Fabre D'Olivet writes: Root not used in Hebrew.
The Arabic [word] seems to indicate a thing livid, or which
renders livid; a thing inanimate, and as dead. Literally wax, a
mummy: figuratively, solitude, a desert.

### [gibah](/keys/GBOH) - גבעה
> hill. [Exodus 17:9](http://biblehub.com/exodus/17-9.htm). see [686](686), [85](85).

## Latin

> Initials of the first four Rosicrucians, who were the basis or foundation of the order:

>	C.R.C  22  The Self or Christos
>	G.V.   26  GAV (Hebrew) middle or center.
>	I.A.   10  Ahyee, where? How?
>	I.O.   22  Peh, mouth and Yesod, foundation.
>	---------
>	total  80

> The basis of practical occultism (I.O) is self-expression or self-utterance. Adequate self-expression requires selfinterrogation (I.A) animated by specific purpose. This work of self-expression is to be realized through concentration, which leads to the establishment of equilibrium through finding one's true center (G.V.).

> 22, which is the Latin value of C.R.C. and of I.O. has a connection with the paths of the letters on the Tree of Life, and with the number of Tarot Keys. 26 (G.V.) is the Hebrew value of IHVH. 10 (I.A.) suggests the 10 Sephiroth. Thus the whole system of 32 Paths in intimated.

> This sequence also suggests: "By his hand (BIVD, 22) Tetragrammaton (IHVH, 26) reveals himself in the Sephiroth (10) and the letters (22). see [8](8), (GV-note).

### Bibliotheca (Lt)
Library.

### novus (Lt)
> new. Part of the inscription "A new order of the ages" on the Great Seal of the U.S. see [220](220), [46](46), [94](94), [126](126), [370](370) (Latin).