## 82 - Eighty-Two
> (2x41). 13 stars, 26 horizontal lines, 24 divisions of Glory and 19 clouds = 82. The crest of the Great Seal of the U.S.

---

### [Jehovah Elohekah](/keys/IHVH.ALHK) - יהוה אלהך
> The Lord thy God. [Deuteronomy. 15:4](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/15-4.htm): *"for the LORD shall greatly bless thee in the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee for an inheritance to possess it:"*

> [Deuteronomy. 28:58](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/28-58.htm): *"If thou wilt not observe to do all the words of this law that are written in this book, that thou mayest fear this glorious and fearful name, THE LORD THY GOD;"*. see [26](26), [66](66).

---

### [neychokah](/keys/NIChVCh) - ניחוח
> soothing, tranquilizing, sweet odor or sacrifice, pleasantness, sweetness, delight.

---

### [Obed](/keys/OVBD) - עובד
> Father of ישי [Jesse](/keys/IShI) ([320](320)), son of בעז [Boaz](/keys/BOZ) ([79](79)). "serving."

---

### [Abeddo](/keys/OBDV) - עבדו
> "His servant." [Isaiah 50:10](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/50-10.htm): *"That Obeyeth the voice of his servant."*

---

### [lahbahn](/keys/LBN) - לבן
> white; whiteness, white of the eye; silver coin. White is the symbol of purity and innocence in Masonic symbolism, and on the Great Seal of the U.S. see [788](788), [138](138).

---

### [loben](/keys/LBN) - לבן
> whiteness; semen (see [88](88)).

---

### [nahbahl, nawbawl](/keys/NBL) - נבל
> Fool; something hollow (cf. Follis, [65](65)). also: ignoble, senseless person; impious, villainous person. Husband of Abigail ("source of joy", [45](45)) of the House of Caleb ("Dog", i.e. faithfulness). [1 Samuel 25:3](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/25-3.htm). see [46](46), [52](52).

---

### [nebbeyl](/keys/NBL) - נבל
> to cause fading, cause to whither and fall; to be foolish, to be senseless.

---

### [nebeyl](/keys/NBL) - נבל
> to despise, blaspheme, disgrace, treat with contumely; to dirty, pollute; to make an animal ritually forbidden by improper slaughtering. The profanation of spirit by the flesh.

---

### [Chassid](/keys/ChSID) - חסיד
> Godly man, saint, pious, kind, benevolent, Hassid, of the Hassidic sect. A master of compassion or mercy, attributed to Jupiter on the Tree of Life. see [72](72), [122](122)

---

### [chesid](/keys/ChSID) - חסיד
> kindly, righteous, Holy.

---

### [Aniel](/keys/ANAL) - אנאל
> Hanael. "Grace of God." the angel of Venus and of Netzach, the number 7. Alternate spelling see [97](97).

---

### [bai, boyei](/keys/BOI) - בעי
> a prayer. Prayer is the invocation of Grace for purity of spirit.

---

### [Haikel Gavgah](/keys/HIKL.GVGH) - היכל גוגה
> Briatic palace of Hod. Has to do with intuition as the source in intellectual creation.

---

## Latin

---

### [corpus](/latin?word=corpus) (Lt)
> body. Refers to the body of the manifested world, as when Jesus says "This is my body." see [64](64), [72](72), [156](156), [200](200), [118](118) Latin.

---

### [Mundus](/latin?word=mundus) (Lt)
> World or Universe; World Order. see [600](600) Greek.

---

### [desiderare](/latin?word=desiderare) (Lt)
[desire/want](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=desiderare), long/wish for, request, require/need; miss, lack; lose; want to know; investigete/examine/discuss (L+S); raise the question;

> *"Our heart is also reformed in like manner, when in everything: (1) We lean on Him only--**desiderare.**"* {[Karl von Eckartshausen, The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary, letter VI](cloud-upon-sanctuary)}

---

### English Gematria

- [Arthur](/english?word=Arthur). See [80](80), [162](162), [ארתור](/keys/ARThVR) [807](807).
- [Ciprus](/english?word=Ciprus) *([Fama p.3](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/3))*

---

### See Also:

- [10](10)