## 83 - Eighty-Three
> (prime)

### [khalilah](/keys/ChLILH) - חלילה
> rotation, succession; round about; in turn. As an adverb: God forbid! With different vowel points: pointed.

### [A-B-I-O](/keys/A-B-I-O) - א־ב־י־ע
> Sum of the letter which are the initials of the name of the 4 Qabalistic Worlds. Mathers, in [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 13] gives: Addreviatura Qustuor Systematur, or abbreviation of the four worlds. Aleph = Atziluth, the archetypal world of ideas; Beth = Briah, the world of Creation; Yod = Yetzirah, the world of Formation and Ayin = Assiah, the world of Action or manifestation. see [537](537), [218](218), [315](315), [385](385), [1377](1377).

### [ouz, oz](/keys/OVZ) - עוז
> strength, power, might. Alternate spelling is עז [oz](/keys/OZ) ([77](77)). Relates to גבורה [Geburah](/keys/GVBRH). see [216](216), [84](84).

### [Hanukkah](/keys/ChNKH) - חנכה
> inauguration, dedication; Hanukkah, the festival of the Maccebean dedication of the altar; consecration.

### [gahph](/keys/GP) - גף
> body, self; height, elevation; wing; dam; bank of river. see [89](89), [803](803).

> According to Fabre D'Olivet: "גף. All ideas to conservation, protection, guarantee: in a restricted sense, a body. The Arabic [word] develops the idea of dryness and of that which becomes dry. The verb [Arabic word] signifies literally, to with draw from." [Hebrew Tongue Restored pp. 316-317]

> פג [beginning of text missing] ...almost a miracle. The letters of the name תאנה [Tenah](/keys/ThANH) illustrate that fact: The symbol of the fig tree Th, Tav engendering directly Aleph, in a perpetual life.

> תא [Tav-Aleph](/keys/ThA) culminate in נה [Nun-Heh](/keys/NH). This explains Jesus mysterious curse upon the unfruitful fig-tree [Matthew 21: 18-22] If it does not give forth the Aleph, it is not a real fig tree, it is an imposter." [Song of Songs, p. 75]

> Fabre D'Olivet writes: "פג Phg. That which extends afar, which wanders, is extended, loses its strength, its heat. The Arabic [word] has nearly the same sense. As noun, it is every kind of crudeness, unripeness; as verb, it is the action of separating, opening, disjoining, etc." [Hebrew Tongue Restored p. 423]

### [eggelay-tahl](/keys/AGLI-TL) - אגלי־תל
> dew drops "The drops of dew" [Job 38:28](http://biblehub.com/job/38-28.htm) "Hath the rain a father? or Who hath begotten the drops of dew?" The heavenly dew is light; it falls in widely-scattered drops" of solar radiance and forms all bodies with its generative power. see [39](39), [44](44).

### [Benaiah](/keys/BNIIHV) - בנייהו
> "Jah has built" [1 Kings 4:4](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/4-4.htm): *"Benaiah the son of Jehoiada [Jah knoweth]..."*

### [Gimel](/keys/GIML) - גימל
> "camel" related to memory and subconsciousness. alternative spelling. see [73](73).

### [gelim](/keys/GLIM) - גלים
> a flowing, wave. suggest the vibratory activity of mental substance.

### [kenegdow](/keys/KNGDV) - כנגדו
> "As his counterpart" (Young's Literal Translation); "For him" (Massoretic Text). [Genesis 2:18](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-18.htm): *"And the Lord God said, it is not good that the man should be alone [Adam]; I will make a companion [an help meet] for him."*

> Here is a prefix meaning "as, like; about; approximate; while, during"; נגד means: before, in front of, in the presence of; over, against, opposite; thus כנגד means: according to; towards, opposite. see [45](45) (aleph, spirit in דם, blood).

## Greek/Latin:

### [Fiat Luz](/latin?word=Fiat+Luz) (Lt)
> "Let there be light." [Genesis 1:3](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-3.htm).

### [judicium](/latin?word=judicium) (Lt)
[Judgement](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=judicium). trial, legal action/process; court/tribunal; courts; adminstration of justice; judgement/sentence/verdict; judging; jurisdiction/authority; opinion/belief.

> *"The human understanding is divided into seven powers.... The fifth is that of deciding upon some thing--**judicium**"*

> *"Our understanding is formed after that of Jesus Christ:... (5) when we reject all thoughts which are not in conformity with His, and choose those only to which He might also confess--**judicium**"* {[Karl von Eckartshausen, The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary, letter VI](cloud-upon-sanctuary)}