## 84 - Eighty-Four
3x4x7.

### [Agaph](/keys/AGP) - אגף
> Troop, squadron; wing (army), band, bank of a river, rivulet

### [awgaph](/keys/AGP) - אגף
> to close, shut a door, seal a jar.

### [Bekal-Laib](/keys/BKL.LB) - בכל לב
> "with all my heart." "with my whole Heart."

### [Gemulah](/keys/GMVLH) - גמולה
> Reward, recompense. Knowledge is the reward of the skill of perception. see [3](3), [12](12), [21](21), [30](30), [39](39), [48](48), [57](57), [66](66), [75](75), [93](93).

### [Enoch](/keys/ChNVK) - חנוך
> Initiated. Proper name Enoch, the patriarch who "walked with God." see [564](564)

> Fabre D'Olivet renders [Genesis 4:17](http://biblehub.com/genesis/4-17.htm): *"And Kain knew Aisheth (his intellectual companion, his volitive faculty): and she conceived and brought forth (the existence of) Henoch (founder, central energy) Then he builded a spherical enclosure (stronghold) and he called the name of this spherical enclosure after the name of his son Henoch." He comments: חנוך... again I urge the reader to give close attention to the proper names; for to them Moses attaches great importance. The greater part of the hieroglyphic mysteries are now in form of these names. The one referred to in this passage, is composed to the two roots חן and אך. The first חן, characterize proper, elementary existence: it is a kind of strengthening of analogous root חן, more used, and which designates things in general. The second אך, contains the idea of every compression, of every effort that the being makes upon itself, or upon another. For the purpose of fixing itself or another. The verb which comes from these two roots: חנוך signifies to fix, to found, to institute, to arrest any existence whatsoever. It is from a composition quite similar, that the personal pronoun אנוכי, myself, in Hebrew results; that is to say אן or הן, the finished, corporeal being, אוך founded, Yod in me."* [Hebrew Tongue Restored p. 137-138]

> Gaskell comments that Enoch is *"a symbol of the individuality; that part of the soul which survives physical and astral dissolution, or the first and second deaths, and is immortal."* [Dictionary of all Scriptures and Myths, p. 250]

### [Yawda](/keys/IDO) - ידע
> To see, to know, to know carnally, perceive, consider. The root of [Da'ath](/keys/DOTh). Its 1st 2 letters spell יד, Yod (hand) and Ayin which means human eye. Therefore to know means: to touch and see. First of the occult axioms: to know, to will, to dare, to be silent. also: ידע: to appoint, assign; ידע: to be known, be familiar. see [474](474), [503](503), [20](20), [701](701), [130](130), [708](708)

### [dammam, dawmam](/keys/DMM) - דמם
> was silent, to be silent, to be still, to wait in silence; to stop, stand still; to be struck dumb. A reminder of the last, and therefore most emphatic of the four ancient occult axioms. To know, will, dare and be silent. "Be still, and know that I am God." see [86](86)

### [chalom, chaelom](/keys/ChLVM) - חלום
> A dream. *"Then shall the vision of thy Lord be granted unto thee"* [Book of Tokens, Samekh]. Signifies revelation of knowledge in the silence of night.

### [Alchemah](/keys/ALChMH) - אלחמה
> Alchemy; the science of personality transmutation and the art of physical regeneration through union with God. See [53](53). Note that is word is composed of two other words: **אל** (strength, a name of God), and **חמה**, Khammah, the Sun.

> [אלChM, ilkhame, is the modern Hebrew verb meaning "to alchemize."]

> Case Writes: *"Alchemy is אל-חמה, wherefore, on p. 75 of this work [Hermetic Mystery and Alchemy, by Mrs. Atwood-A Suggestive Inquiry], those who pin the narrow name of Chemia to this science are denounced as imposters. For though this is the science and art which deals with what hearers calls the operation of the sun , it is altogether misunderstood if it be limited to the sun (חמה). unless אל be conjoined to חמה, the art is not truly named. אל = [31](31) and חמה (sun) = 53. Therefore is אל the symbol of the one manifested through the three, while חמה signifies the manifestation of the three through the five. The ONE is the first matter; the three are the principles, Sulphur, Mercury and Salt; the five are the four elements and the quintessence extracted from them. Therefore does the name alchemy represent that which by the wise is declared to be One which is also three, four and five (since Al = [31](31) = [4](4), and חמה = [8](8). The 4 may be symbolized as the + of the elements (with the quintessence at the center). The eight is no where better symbolized than by the numeral 8, which discloses the secret of its movement. Finally, חמה + אל = [84](84) = the conjunction of 8, the number of Hermes or Mercury with 4, the number of Jupiter, of Zeus. Here in may be found the whole mystery of the Tetragrammaton (4) and Christ (8). And the conjunction of the new Jerusalem, and of the ancient Egyptian symbol [3-4-5 triangle] wherein the whole mystery of the art is synthesized; while there multiplication (8x4) gives [32](32), the number of the paths on the Tree."*

### [P.D.](/keys/PD) - פד
> Peh-Daleth, Initials of P.D. the last brother of the 2nd group of co-founders of the Rosicrucian order according to the Fama.

> *"These initials do not spell a Hebrew word, but they correspond to letters of [Peh](/keys/P) (Mars) and [Daleth](/keys/D) (Venus). Suggesting action (which is expression, since Peh means mouth) and imagination (which is the door of Daleth, leading out of any given situation into another)... Action which expresses vivid imagination is indispensable. Yet the most effective action is free from noise. Silent action speaks louder that an words. The Fama says, that brother P.D. was their secretary, and his initials are appropriate in this connection. The secretary receive letters and applications, and communicates the responses of the fraternity. He keeps the records of the work, and all the archives. He must be gifted in expression, because he is the mouth piece of all. He must be possessed of imagination, because he has to understand the problems of others. He must be a true initiate, walking with God, like Enoch. he must be silent in the face of criticism, silent before enemies of the Work, silent in the presence of the unprepared and hardest of all, silent when the silly ignorance of others tempts him to speech, where speech would do no good."* [PFC True and Invisible page 160].

### [Aleph-Heh-Cheth-Ayin](/keys/A-H-Ch-O) - א ה ח ע 
> The 4 guttural letters of the Hebrew Alphabet. [Aleph](/keys/A) = spirit; [Heh](/keys/H) = vision, reason; [Cheth](/keys/Ch) = receptivity; [Ayin](/keys/O) = mirth, renewal. [IZQ, 699] [K.D.L.C.K. p. 71] says that these are the initial letters of [Exodus 32:31](http://biblehub.com/exodus/32-31.htm), אנא חטא העם הזה, *"Oh, this people have sinned a great sin."*

### [Abimail](/keys/ABIMAL) - אבימאל
> "The Father is God."

### [Achlemah](/keys/AChLMH) - אחלמה
> Amethyst; a precious stone, the ninth stone of the breast-plate of the High Priest; corresponding with Sagittarius.

> [Exodus 28:19](http://biblehub.com/exodus/28-19.htm): *"And in the third row an opal, an agate, and an amethyst."* For other stones, see [45](45), [98](98), [702](702), [150](150), [345](345), [395](395), [370](370), [308](308), [1210](1210), [350](350), [85](85).

> Isidore Kosminsky writes: *"The ninth stone of the breastplate is achlamah, which with few exceptions, is identified with the amethyst-beyond doubt the correct identification. The Midrash Bemiddah gives the color as purple which is the dominant shade of this beautiful gem: purple is also one of the chief colors associated with the planet Jupiter which in Astrology is termed the Lord of Sagittarius, the ninth sign of the Zodiac... in old poets, travelers, publishers, etc. It would strengthen the wisdom, faith and religion of the wearer and aid in prayer and in dreaming. If bound to the left wrist the amethyst enabled the wearer to see the future in dreams; to dream of the stone itself indicated success to a traveler, clergyman, sailor, philosopher, teacher or mystic, also protection, faith and fruitful thought for pains in the head (headache, toothache, etc.) It was recommended that an amethyst be immersed in hor water for a few minutes, taken out, dried, carefully and gently rubbed over the parts affected and the back of the neck. Almost all authorities agree in translating the Hebrew achlamah as amethyst and as identifying it as the ninth stone of the High Priest Breastplate. It was the seventh precious stone which the sage Iachus gave to Apollonius of Tyana as an emblem of piety and dignity."* (pp. 129- 132)

### Greek/Latin

#### [Centrum](/latin?word=Centrum) (Lt)
> *"Center. Located in Tiphareth as the middle point in the Tree of Life, Vav indicates the centrum mentioned in the Fama as the only point and center to which we are directed by the true philosophy"* [True and Invisible, p]. see [6](6), [12](12), [1081](1081).

#### [Essentia](/latin?word=Essentia) (Lt)
> Essence

#### [Magister](/latin?word=Magister) (Lt)
> Master, leader, chief, superior. He who "knows" is initiated into the central essence at the heart and this is his reward. He thus merits the above titles. See [314](314) (latin), [151](151) (latin).

> Jacob Boehme writes: *"And Hebrew understand that the will is a spirit, and different from the desirous craving. For the will is an insensitive and incognitive life; but the craving is found by the will, and is the will a being. This the craving is a magia (29), and the will a magus (55); and the will is greater than its mother which gives it, for it is Lord in the mother; and the mother is dumb, but the will is a life without origin. The craving is certainly a casue of the will, but without knowledge or understanding. The will is the understanding of the craving."* [Mysterium Pansophicum II:2, p. 154] Paul Case notes: [29](29) (magiamagic) + [55](55) (magus-mage) = [84](84) = magister = centrum, i.e. the point = 1 = magus; the circle surrounding it is magia.

### [Cognitio](/latin?word=Cognitio) (Lt)
> Knowledge. Part of a phrase see [474](474).

### [Seculum](/latin?word=Seculum) (Lt)
> A generation, life-time; age.

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)