## 85: Eighty-Five

5x17. The difference between Ain (value 61), and Suph (value 146). The *means* whereby *Ain,* the No-Thing, establishes *Suph,* or limitation.

### [Peh](/keys/PH) - פה
> Letter-name Peh. The mouth as organ of speech; speech, saying, command, orifice, opening; edge (of sword); extremity, end; womb; border, mouthful, portion, part. The utterance of the *Word,* the Creative Thought.  Peh represents the Mars force, or the principle of action. The No-Thing establishes apparent limitation by the utterance of its Creative Thought, and this utterance is the active principle of manifestation. The power which constitutes the framework of creation ([Key 4](4)). The ground of similarity among all forms of cosmic manifestation ([Key 13](13)). The root of other powers ([Geburah](216)). The exciting influence giving the initial ipulse to verious trains of action ([Key 16](16)). The power of renewal which leads to regeneration ([Key 15](15), Mars is exalted in Capricorn). The name of the letter Peh, which corresponds to Mars, the Mars-force or principle of action (see [80](80)). The 17th letter, [27th Path of Wisdom](27) and [Key 16](16). Peh connects [Netzach](/keys/NTzCh) (desire) and [Hod](/keys/HVD) (intellect) on the Tree of Life and is the northern face of the Cube of Space. see [80](80), [899](899). *[Gematria PFC]*

> *These two paths cross Gimel above Tiphareth, but the third reciprocal path of Peh crosses the path of Samekh below Tiphareth. Now see a subtlety: פה, Peh, is 85, and this goes back to 4 through 13, so that the path of פה, Peh, veils Daleth again. Thus all the horizontal paths are feminine, even though the path of Peh is related to Mars, and the ruling power in the path of Teth is the Sun.* [11th Communication 5/23/47]

> *פה is 85, a fivefold 17 is the sign of the multiplication of goodness by a vision of the Constituting Intelligence which is ה, or 5.* [24th Communication 1/1/48] see 89, [10](10), [17](17), [170](170)

### [Yesodah](/keys/ISVDH) - יסודה
> Basis, foundation. The feminine form of [Yesod](80). Establishment of seeming limitation is the result of the operation of the feminine aspect of reality, the feminine foundation. Compare [beten](/keys/BTN), the womb, and [ameka](/keys/AMK), thy mother.

### [ha-Yesod](/keys/H.ISVD) - ה יסוד
The Foundation. See [Yesod](80).

### [Aphad](/keys/APD) - אפד
> to clothe, to glorify, steadfast; to bind about, to gird; steadfastness, constancy. The No-Thing establishes apparent limitation within itself by circumscribing a field of manifestation in which to express its infinite potencies.

### [Gobiya](/keys/GBIO) - גביע
> Bowl, a goblet; the calyx of a flower. The cup on the Magician's table, and the flowers in his garden. The "cup" is the creative pattern of the Universal Mind. Its connection with Peh intimates that the power of articulate sound has power akin to the Briatic world of cups. *[Gematria PFC]*

> *גביע is from גבע, to be vaulted or arched, and this at once identifies the symbolic meaning of the word as having something to do with the feminine gender. A flower is that part of a plant in which the reproductive organs are located, and גביע is actually related to the occult meaning of Mars, which is that force active in the reproductive power of both sexes.* [Gematria of the Letter-Names]*

### [Hamam](/keys/HMM) - המם
> to route, to confuse, to impel, to drive, to put into strong action; to disturb; to bring into confusion, to confound. The No-THing disturbs its own perfect rest in order to manifest its potencies, and sets up intense activities within the field of seeming limitation it establishes in itself. The primary manifestations are chaotic, disturbed and confused, yet order eventually evolves out of the primary chaos. *[Gematria PFC]*

### [Boaz](/keys/BVOZ) - בועז
> The black pillar of severity set before Solomon's temple. A variant spelling referred to in the Sephirah Hod. [בעז](/keys/BOZ) is the scripture spelling. [1 Kings 7:21](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/7-21.htm) see [79](79)

### [Laib Ehben](/keys/LB.ABN) - לב אבן
> "Heart of the Stone" *[Ezekiel 11:19](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/11-19.htm) "I will remove from them their heart of stone and give them a heart of flesh."* In the passage ה is affixed to אבן. A Qabalistic liberty has been exercised here. "And I will take the stoney heart out of their flesh." The "stoney heart" is symbolic of the sense of separateness pictured by [Key 16: The Tower](16).

### [Miylah](/keys/MILH) - מילה
> Circumcision (Rabbinical word), the sign of the covenant of union and love, in exoteric Judaism. For spiritual Israel, there is circumcision of the heart by control of the emotional nature. In Yod the seed of all the letters is the secret of the covenant and this secret is the Peh-Heh, the mouth of the eternal. This is the true occult meaning of the compass in Freemasonry: "Learn to circumscribe their passions and keep their desires within bounds." Notariqon for "Who shall go up for us to heaven?" *[Deutoronomy 30:12](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/30-12.htm)* (see 95, 671, 651, 55) *[Gematria PFC]*

> *Verily, יוד (yod) is the seed of all the letters, and if thou hast eyes to see, in יוד is the secret of the Covenant, and this secret is the Peh-Heh (פה), for פה is 85, or היסוד, Ha-Yesod, the Foundation, and 85 is also מילה, Miylah, the Covenant which removeth concealment from the paternal Yod.*

> Comment: The text outwardly reflects the influence of Jewish exclusiveness, but this is only in letter, not in spirit. The physical rite does, indeed, unveil the paternal Yod, hence the phrase, "if thou hast eyes to see," but the Covenant is not its symbol. What is hidden here goes deeper. 

> In מילה Miylah, the first letter is מים (mem). Then comes יוד (yod), then למד (lamed), and, lastly, הה (heh). מים יוד (mem yod) spells מי (mi), which is the Living Water, transmitting life. Of that life, the letter י at the end of מי is the sign, for י is the first letter of יהוה (Jehovah), the name of the Most High. Thus Yod stands for Chaiah, the life-force in Chokmah, and the letters Lamed and Heh which conclude מילה Miylah are referred to Venus (Nogah) and Mars (Madim) respectively.

> The Covenant, then, reveals the paternal Yod in Chokmah. Yet is the symbol a clue to a fact, for the cosmic life-force is projected, generation after generation, into manifestation through human bodies, and the power of Mars is combined with that of Venus in the Vital Soul in Yesod. This is, even now, a closely guarded practical secret, and not even here may you expect to find it unveiled. If you can see and hear, you may come to know it. But how far do you see, and what do you really hear? *[Qabalistic Text - 10th Communication 5/19/47]*

> The fact that Peh represents the Mars force is also the clue to the meaning of מילה, circumcision, which refers to the masculine aspects of the Life Power's activity in reproduction." *[Gematria of the Letter-Names]*

### [hawi](/keys/HOI) - העי
> heap, ruin. As the name a city, it is translated "Ai." The prefix H perhaps is considered as the definite article.

## Latin

### [Dominus](/latin?word=Dominus) (Lt)
> Lord. Latin word for God as the ruler of the Universe. The Latin word used in translating יהוה, [Jehovah](26), and אדני, [Adonai](65) in the Old Testament. What is intimated is that what the human mind formulates in its idea of "God is Lord" , is no more than the idea of the agency whereby the absolute sets up the conditions of name and form, which are the logical necessitities for any manifestation whatever. See [518](518) Latin.

### [Veritas](/latin?word=Veritas) (Lt)
> Truth. "Truth" has to do with something we must regard as being intermediate between the Absolute No-Thing and the field of seeming limitation which embraces all things having form, quality, mass and other definable characteristics. see [441](441).

### [Zelator](/latin?word=Zelator) (Lt)
> The Zealous one. Corresponds to 1=10 Rosicrucian grade of initation corresponding to Malkuth on the Tree of Life, and the element of Earth. The "Lord of Earth" is אדני מלך, [Adonai Melekh](155). The Zelator is admonished to keep the fire of aspiration burning in the [athanor](/keys/ThNVR) or vessel of light, in this quest for truth. See [103](103), [100](100), [142](142), [656](656), [662](662).

### [Scorpio](/latin?word=Scorpio) (Lt)
> Scorpion; the eighth sign of the Zodiac, corresponding to the Hebrew letter Nun, "seed", [Tarot Key 13 - Death](13), i.e. change and transformation, to alchemical putrefaction, and to Apophis (Typhon) in the IAO formula. see [50](50), [106](106), [54](54), [81](81), [861](861) (Greek); [70](70) (Latin).

### [vitrol](/latin?word=vitrol) (Lt)
> A reference to the Ego. Alchemist call it their vitrol, because the physical substance name vitrol (sulfate of zinc) forms a glassy brilliant crystals which reflect light. It is because the Ego reflects the Light of the One Self rather than being the original Light-source. An abbreviated quotation of the Secret Symbols page 17. see [570](570).
