## 86 - Eighty-Six
2x43.

---

### [Elohim](/keys/ALHIM) - אלהים
> Creative Powers, Strengths. The 7-fold Lifebreath. ([More >>](elohim))

---

### [Nivdal](/keys/NBDL) - נבדל
> separative. From a verb meaning: to be divided, separated, set apart; similar to the English "to distinguish". The 6th path is the Intelligence of Mediating or Separative Influence. The Separative Intelligence is a mode of consciousness which acts in man as the discriminative power that classifies various objects of experience. A formula for the powers of the Elohim. They manifest through imagination (Nun), self-conscious effort (Beth), desire (Daleth) and action through balance (Lamed). The sonship of man makes him heir for the powers of the Elohim. see [1081](1081), [536](536), [548](548), [640](640), [886](886).

---

### [ha-taba](/keys/HTBO) - הטבע
> Nature. Referring to nature or everything in the field of manifestation, which is like an impression on a coin or in substance. As a verb, to be set as a foundation. The Talmudic word for nature is הטבע, which also means substance, element, coin, medal, impression on a coin, universe, character, characteristics.  see [81](81), [23](23), [4](4), [14](14), [41](41), [72](72), [104](104), [158](158)

---

### [abel ha-gedulah](/keys/ABL.HGDVLH) - אבל הגדולה
> "the great meadow." Incorrectly translated in the English Bible as the "Great stone of Abel." see [1 Samuel 6:18](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/6-18.htm) and note that "Stone" and "which stone remaineth" are in italics, to indicate words are not in the Hebrew original.

> Do not confuse Abel with the name of the 2nd son of Adam and Eve. The "Great Meadow" symbolizes the field of cosmic manifestation, relating to Cheth as the field or fence of human personality within the boundaries of the absolute.

---

### [baedi](/keys/BODI) - בעדי
> "what surrounds me, i.e. "my environment." Translated "That which concerneth me" in the authorized version of [Psalm 138:8](http://biblehub.com//.htm). "What surrounds me" is the "Great Meadow," the field of cosmic manifestation. The field is itself WITHIN the encompassing being of the One Reality.

---

### [ehbaydai, obediy](/keys/OBDI) - עבדי
> "my servants". [Isaiah 65:13](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/65-13.htm), [Psalm 135:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/135-1.htm). These are the servants of יהוה, the powers which surround us and constitute our environment and represented by אלהים, Elohim (86). "The Great Meadow" which constitutes "what surrounds me" contains nothing but the servants of Tetragrammaton, and these are the creative powers called Elohim in Genesis. The power of specialization corresponding to Binah and the first Heh in יהוה. see 162

---

### [Eheyeh Adonai](/keys/AHIH.ADNI) - אהיה אדני
> A name composed of the special names of Kether (אהיה) and Malkuth (אדני), and thus asserting the identity of these two Sephiroth. It is written, therefore, that "Kether is in Malkuth and Malkuth is in Kether, but afte another manner." It is also the secret of the saying "I and the Father are One." In this connection remember that the Holy Ghost came as fire. See [21](21), [65](65), [386](386), [620](620), [496](496).

---

### [Ben Dal](/keys/BN.DL) - בן דל
"Humble Son".

---

### [Ab lebehn](/keys/AB.LABN) - אב לאבן
> Father of Fathers. Aramaic text of the Lesser Holy Assembly (Zohar) Chapter 7, section 214: *"This Chokmah is the Father of Fathers, and in this Chokmah is beginning and end discovered."*

---

### [sukkoh](/keys/SKV) - סכו
> pavilion, tent. "his tabernacle," where it is said to be in Salem, i.e. in peace. This brings out the idea that אלהים is the name used in Psalm 76. [The spelling of sukkoh in Psalm 76 is a longer spelling. This is the defective spelling for special Qabalistic emphasis.] see [370](370), [376](376), [92](92)

---

### [Hallelu Jah](/keys/HLLV.IH) - הללו יה
> Praise be to God. Exclamation of Joy.

---

### [kevos](/keys/KVS) - כוס
> cup, goblet, the lot of fate, whether good or bad; also the pelican called KVS, because its throat resembles a cup or bag. The pelican is an important alchemical symbol. In all its meanigns this word suggest the concealment, virgin birth, and preservation of the fire through the feminine prinicple. see [386](386), [300](300).

---

### [maom](/keys/MVM) - מום
> want, fault, blemish, stain, spot, defect. Godwin gives: Mum; 72nd name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 6th Quinance (26°-30°) of Cancer. see [101](101), [1525](1525).

---

### [momli](/keys/MVLI) - מולי
> plentitude. The "fullness" of the powers of deity. also: filling, stuffing.

---

### [laiekaylah](/keys/LAKLH) - לאכלה
> "for food". [Genesis 1:29](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-29.htm). Referring to herbs and *"every tree which is the fruit of (a) tree yielding seed: to you it shall be for food."* The Tree of Life and its powers.

---

### [vedayou](/keys/VDOV) - ודעו
> (Be still) "and know" (that I am God). see [514](514).

---

### [Miahal](/keys/MIHAL) - מיהאל
> "God, Father of Succor." 48th Shemhamphorash. Angel of 10 Of Cups. 236°-240°. May 6, July 17, September 27, December 8, February 18. 3:40 - 4:00 PM. [Psalm 98:2](http://biblehub.com/psalms/98-2.htm): *"The Lord has made known His salvation; His righteousness has He openly shown in the sight of the nations."*

> To preserve peace and union between married couples. Protects those who have recourse to it; they will have present merits and secret inspirations concerning all that happens to them. Rules the generation of beings, and influences friendships and conjugal fidelity. Person born: ardent in love; likes walking and all pleasure in general. see [965](965), [1525](1525).

---

### [Haniel](/keys/HNAL) - הנאל
> Geomantic intelligence of Capricorn.

---

### [keyehon](/keys/KIVN) - כיון
> The planet Saturn, Binah, the sphere of Saturn is also the sphere of the Elohim.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Naometria](/latin?word=Naometria) (Lt)
> Temple measurement. A Latinized from a Greek noun. It was a title of a curious work by Simon Studion. The book itself is negligible. Yet its title shows that Studion might have had some acquaintance with occult writings circulated by the inner school before the publication of the 1st Rosicrucian manifestoes. In these, the word Naometria had to do with right measurement of the field within the boundaries of the pentagon, i.e., nature as the temple of God.

> A.E. Waite writes: *"The symbolical expression is reminiscent of Kabalistic or pre-Kabalistic tracts on the delineation of the celestial temples, the measurement of diving body, and Rabbi Eliezer's measurement of the Earth Temple; but the immediate allusion is to the Apocalypse, [Revelations 11:1](http://biblehub.com/revelation/11-1.htm): And there was given me a reed like a rod: and the angel stood, saying: rise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar, and them that worship the rein. For this reason the subtitle of the manuscript is termed a naked and prime opening of the book written-within and without-by the key of David and the reed like unto a rod. The book in question is presumable that which was sealed with seven seals, but was opened in heaven by the Lamb, standing before the throne of God; and Naometria is said to be a brief introduction to a knowledge of all mysteries in holy scripture and the universal world. It follows that Simon Studion, by the claim expressed in his title, but received the power which was given to the lion of the tribe of Juda and the root of David."* [Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross, p. 44] see [333](333) (Latin)

---

### [primus](/latin?word=primus) (Lt)
> first (in order). Indicating the idea that the Field must be manifest before the man appears, just as the pentagon must be constructed before the star of 5 points, symbolizing man, may be drawn.

---

### [sapientia](/latin?word=sapientia) (Lt)
> wisdom. The Latin equivalent of Chokmah. see [73](73), [357](357) (Latin), [421](421)

---

### [simplex](/latin?word=simplex) (Lt)
> simple, uncompounded, unmixed. Indicating the undifferentiated state of the field with the area symbolically enclosed by the pentagon (Chaiah, [23](23)), before it is specialized by the Tetragrammaton (IHVH) Elohim.

---

### [terra adamica](/latin?word=terra+adamica) (Lt)
> earth of adam [Secret symbols, page 34]. These words are followed by the word Azoth, written with A and Z in Roman characters, Omega in Greek, and Tav in Hebrew. Thus A-Z-Omega-Tav, Azoth means "beginning and end" and is an alchemical name for the Quinta Essentia. see [158](158), [1223](1223)

---

### [Typhon](/latin?word=Typhon) (Latin)
> The Greek name of the Egyptian divinity Set, the personifacation of the principle of evil. In Greek mythology [Greek word] the father of the winds and the son of [Greek word], with whom he was sometimes confused [Webster] As storms were ascribed to the agency of giants, the name came to mean a furious storm, hurricane, typhoon [Greek Dictionary]. An appropriate name for unbalanced force before equilibration has evolved order into manifestation. The "age" of giants and dinosaurs. see [2050](2050), [70](70) (Greek); [23](23), [52](52) (Latin); [861](861) (Greek)

> *"Typhon is an aspect or shadow of Osiris. Typhon is not the distinct evil principle or Satan of the Jews; but rather the lower cosmic principle of the divine body of Osiris ([81](81), [590](590)), the God of them. The true meaning of the Egyptian myth is that Typhon is the terrestrial and material envelope of Osiris, who is the indwelling spirit thereof. In the Qabalistic system which we call the Tree of Life this quarternaty of lower principles corresponds to the four Sephiroth below Tiphareth... if one remembers that every anthropomorphic creative God was with the ancients the Life-giver and the Death-dealer -- Osiris and Typhon.. It will be easy for him to comprehend that Typhon or Apophis ([61](61)) as he was also named was but a symbol of the lower quaternary, the ever conflicting and turbulent principles of differentiated chaotic matter, whether in the universe or in man, while Osiris symbolized the highest spiritual triad."* [Arthur Redman]

---

### [nobiscum](/latin?word=nobiscum) (Latin)
> with us. Part of a Rosicrucian salutation, Deus Nobiscum, pax profunda. ("God with us, peace profound") see [131](131), [251](251), [329](329) (Latin).

---

### See Also

- [14](14)
- [5](5)
