## 88 - Eighty-Eight
> (8x11)

---

### [hakallah](/keys/ChKLL) - חכלל
> colored. The word "color" is derived from a Latin root, meaning "to conceal." This suggests that the material world is a veil of color, concealing the real nature of the Life-Power. Also redness, sparkling.

---

### [chammam](/keys/ChMM) - חמם
> to be hot; to glow, to brood, to hatch. This word is closely related to the old name of Egypt, [Khem](/keys/ChM) (חם), whence, by an interesting series of linguistic transmutations, we get our modern word chemistry--so that the name of that branch of science which is doing so much to establish the real unity of the material world is, literally, "The Wisdom of Egypt." see [78](78).

---

### [chasak](/keys/ChSK) - חסך
> to spare, withhold, be without.

---

### [nachal](/keys/NChL) - נחל
> something hollowed out, a valley. The popular idea is that the material world is a vale of tears; but there is a profounder meaning than this. [The Fool](/keys/A) (Aleph), always descends into a new valley on his adventurous Journey to the next mountain peak. see [108](108), [7](7), [21](21), [14](14), [44](44), [66](66), [28](28). With different vowel points: to take possession, possess, to inherent, to get, acquire.

---

### [Loben](/keys/LBVN) - לבון
> loben. whiteness, semen. Refers to purity and innocence (see [82](82)).

---

### [Magdiel](/keys/MGDIAL) - מגדיאל
> A duke of Edom, associated (with Mibzar) with Yesod. [Genesis 36:43](http://biblehub.com/genesis/36-43.htm): "El is renown" (in man). *"Magdiel and Iram. These were the chiefs of Edom, according to their settlements in the land they occupied."* Edom is a representation of unbalanced force.

---

### [Helon](/keys/ChLN) - חלן
> "strong" The father of Eliab of Zebolon [Numbers 1:9](http://biblehub.com/numbers/1-9.htm), [2:7](http://biblehub.com/numbers/2-7.htm). Refers to alchemical separation. see [95](95)

---

### [chawnaek](/keys/ChNIK) - חניך
> trained person; apprentice; pupil. This word really means initiated. [Genesis 14:14](http://biblehub.com/genesis/14-14.htm): *"And when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive he armed his trained servants, born into his own house, and pursued them unto Dan."* Dan = Scorpio = alchemical putrefaction. see [Key 13](13), [318](318), [94](94).

---

### [chaph](/keys/ChP) - חף
> "pure"; innocent. In [Job 33:9](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Job+33%3A9-10&version=AKJV;WLC): *"I am pure and without sin; I am clean and free from guilt. Yet God has found fault with me; he considers me his enemy."* see [808](808).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"חף Heph. Every idea of protective covering given to a thing; a guarantee, a surety. The Arabic [word] is an onomatopoetic and idiomatic root which depicts that which acts upon the surface, which skims lightly over a thing. The verb [Arabic word] characterizes the condition of that which becomes light; [Arabic word] anything which shivers, shudders with fear, trembles with fright, etc."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored p. 353]

---

### [pach](/keys/PCh) - פח
> danger; net; snare, trap. [Psalm 119:110](http://biblehub.com/psalms/119-110.htm): *"The wicked have set a snare for me, but I have not strayed from your precepts."*

> According to Fabre D'Olivet: *"פח [Pheh](/keys/PCh): everything which is drawn in, expanded, as the breath; all that which is unfolded in order. To envelop and seize, as a net... The Arabic [word] constitutes all onomatopoetic and idiomatic root which describes every kind of hissing of the voice, snoring, strong respiration, rattling. When this voice is strengthened in [Arabic word] , it signifies literally, an ambush; a trap."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 425]

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Nike, Vikeh](/greek?word=nikh) (Gr) - Νίκη
> Victory. The deduction of [88](88) to its least number is 7, the Sephirah named Netzach (Victory). see [360](360), [744](744) (Greek).

---

### [Aqua Vitae](/latin?word=Aqua+Vitae) (Lt)
> Water of Life. *"If you would make our substance red, you must first make it white. Its three natures are summed up in whiteness and redness. Take, therefore, our Saturn, subject it to coction in Aqua Vitae until it turns white, becomes thick, and is coagulated, and then again till it becomes red. Then it is red lead, and without this lead of the sages nothing can be effected."*

---

### [Filius Dei](/latin?word=Filius+Dei) (Lt)
> Son of God. The water of life is the mystical son of God and that son (the rider in the chariot in [Key 7](7)) is also the rose itself (see [154](154), [119](119)).

---

### [victoria](/latin?word=victoria) (Lt)
> victory. see [224](224), [360](360).

---

### [Invenies](/latin?word=Invenies) (Lt)
> You shall find. Part of an alchemical phrase in Secret Symbols (Page 17). *"Visit the interior of the earth by rectifying you shall find the hidden stone."* see [570](570) Latin.

---

### [trigono](/latin?word=trigono) (Lt)
> triangle. The triangle of Fire, which symbolizes spiritual energy or Aleph. see [134](134), [46](46) (Latin), [146](146)

---

### [Nascimur](/latin?word=Nascimur) (Lt)
> We are born. You shall find that the son of God is born anew through us by the aid of the triangle of Fire and the water of Life. Part of the phrase discovered in the vault of brother CR, see [683](683) Latin.

---

### [maximus](/latin?word=maximus) (Lt)
> great; greatest. Part of a phrase referring to God. see [234](234).

---

### [summum](/latin?word=summum) (Lt)
> The highest. Part of an alchemical phrase. see [145](145) (Latin)

---

### English Gematria:

- [clear eyes](/english?word=clear+eyes) *([Fama Intro p.13](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13/mode/2up))*
- [Errors](/english?word=Errors) *([Fama Intro p.14](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n14/mode/2up))*. see [162](162) (gross Errors).

---

### See Also:

- [16](16)
- [7](7)
