## 89 - [Eighty-Nine](/keys/PT)
Prime.

---

### [Guph](/keys/GVP) - גוף
> The physical body, person, substance, essence, one of the 4 elements (matter as opposed to spirit). The lowest, and most external aspect of personality. Assigned to Malkuth, the fruit of completion of the Tree of Life. Gimel in **גוף** stands for the Uniting Intelligence joining Yekhidah to the Ego seated in the hearts of men, and also directly related to the Life-force in Chokmah. Vav stands for the Ego as the inner teacher. The burden of his teaching is that true wisdom must ever find expression in loving-kindness. Peh stands for the destruction of error and represents Yesod (by numeration) and the powers of the automatic consciousness. It is during man's life in the physical body that he must accomplish the work which overcomes the delusions which seem to limit him. Guph is the starting point for the work which leads to liberation and is also the place where the Great Work finds completion. The Hebrew dictionary gives the additional meaning of "one of the four elements; matter, as the opposite of spirit, person (grammatical)." see [496](496), [19](19), [463](463), [400](400), [430](430), [543](543), [1006](1006), [55](55), [564](564), [170](170), [231](231), [809](809).

> [Qabalistic Text - 7th Communication, 3/9/47]:

> > *"The essence of Guph is the serpent-fire of which the token is Teth, and this fire cometh forth through the working of the Active Intelligence, of which the token is Peh. Thus the number of Guph (גוף) is 89, and this [9](9) is Teth, and its channel of outpouring is Peh, or [80](80). Add 8 and 9, and you shall see the power of Zain ([7](7)) coming forth through 1 to bring forth 8, or Cheth.*

> > *The Abode of Influence thus is Guph, but the outer working of that aspect of Mezla which descendeth from Binah through the path of Cheth.*

> > (This sentence appears to be somewhat confused. I take it to mean that Guph, the body, is the outward vesture of the force of the path of Cheth, the House of Abode of Influence. The symbolism of Key 7 would seem to indicate this. P.F.C.)

> > *Through the path of Cheth the power of Saturn conjoineth itself with the force of Mars. This power of Saturn descendeth also through the path of Tav into Malkuth, and thus giveth form to Guph in the World of Assiah.*

> > *Now, Guph is the body of the Lord, for is not the name of the Kingdom אדני מלך, [Adonai Melek](/keys/ADNI.MLK)? Behold, then, the Kingdom suspended from the cross of Tav. And what said the King, speaking through that Guph men know by the name of Yeshua? Said He not, "I am the living water?" And behold, מים is 90, and so is מלך; and thus Yeshua stilled the waters (seas), for he knew that Adonai Melek is Lord of the Waters. אדני מלך numbereth [155](155), and here is אל in fivefold expression, for אל is [31](31)."*

> [Qabalistic Text - 8th Communication, 5/8/47]:

> > *"89 is its number, and as the numbers are Sephiroth, this revealeth Hod as the instrument of Yesod. But, again, 9 is Yesod, and [80](80) is the numeration of יסוד. So, also, is 8 the seed of 9, because 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 total 36, and 9 is the sum of 3 and 6. Yet see here the Mother, 3, and the Son, 6. Now look at Key 8, and see there before you the Mother, and her Son, the Lion of the Tribe of Judah. For ONE is All, and thus is Hod but another aspect of יסוד. There is but one Foundation."*

> > *"So also is 89 Teth (9), operating through 80, or the spiraling light-power working through the Mouth of the Eternal (Teth through Peh). When lightening flasheth, thunder roareth, and thunder hath been, from time immemorial, a symbol for the Voice of God. So is thy body, O aspirant, more, far more, than an earthen clod. It is the intelligence that uniteth thee with the Crown. It is the Nail that joineth thee to the Paternal Wisdom. And it is truly the Mouth of the Lord. For in Guph are the letters G, V and P, and these unite thee forever with the Kingdom."*

> [Qabalistic Text and Commentary - 9th Communication, 5/15/47]:

> > *"See now, Guph is כלה, [Kallah](/keys/KLH), the Bride, and in her name is shown the perfection of the Kingdom. For the Kingdom is 10, and כלה is 55, or the sum of the numbers from 1 to 10. See again, the Bride, כלה, is also הכל, the ALL. For in Guph is the whole creation made manifest. Therefore is Guph, the body, the whole [holy? P.F.C.] Temple of the Most High. And where standeth this Temple? Verily, it standeth in the midst, or center, and in it abideth forever [Adonai Melek](/keys/ADNI.MLK) (אדני מלך), our Lord and King, Holy is His Name, Blessed be He!"*

> Note the statement that Guph is really the Kingdom, or the Bride who is the ALL. This is fact. Can anyone separate even the smallest body from the whole? Through a single atom course all the forces of the universe, and whatever body you may take for an example, whether it be small as an electron or great as a galaxy, this remains true. Moreover, whatever body you may elect to consider, that body is the mathematical center of an infinite expanse.

> [Qabalistic Text - 23rd Communication 12/29/47]:

> > *"Chokmah and Kachmah being numerically one, that is, [73](73), and this being also the number of the name of the letter [Gimel](/keys/GML), גמל, what lies behind this part of the text is the Qabalistic doctrine that Chokmah is the source of Chaiah, the life-force, and since גמל as 73 is identical with חכמה [Chokmah](/keys/ChKMH) and כחמה [Kachmah](/keys/KChMH), Gimel is also the seat of Chaiah. Thus the fact that Gimel is the first letter of the word Guph signifies that the body of man proceeds from, or has its root in, Chokmah, which is also the Sphere of Masloth, the highways of the stars."*

---

### [Peh/Teth](/keys/P.T) - פ ט
> Mars in Leo.

---

### [demahmah, dummah](/keys/DMMH) - דממה
> silence, whisper, hush; dormancy. The great work goes on in silence but can be delayed by inertia.

---

### [khahfah](/keys/ChPA) - חפא
> to cover, to veil, a cover or case, to protect. Also in a sinister sense, to veil (the true nature of one's intentions).

---

### [lataim](/keys/LTIM) - לטים
> one enchanted, enchantments. The Illusions of "Egypt." The incarnate life veils the consciousness through the illusion of separation.

---

### [yahat, ya at](/keys/IOT) - יעט
> to clothe. An Aramaic word spelled the same means: to consult. In Isaiah 61:10 this word is IOThNI, meaning "He hath covered". The Tarot keys corresponding to IOTh (Keys 9, 15, and 8) are clues to its deeper meanings.

---

### [nahtal, nawtahl](/keys/NTL) - נטל
> to lift up, take up a burden or weight; to impose, to lay upon. A cross is a symbol of the burden (Saturn) and of bearing the burden. yet it should be remembered that the burden borne by those who know the great Archanum is Light, not heavy. [Proverbs 27:3](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/27-3.htm): *"A stone is heavy and sand is weighty [i.e. a burden or load]; but a fool s wrath is heaver than both."*

---

### [pahdah](/keys/PDH) - פדה
> to separate, release, to ransom, redeem, deliver. The mystery of redemption, veiled in the new testament depends upon the incarnation, to which the word גוף, through its gematria, affords a clue. *"The kingdom of spirit is embodied in my flesh"* says the Malkuth statement of the Pattern.

---

### [hadaph](/keys/HDP) - הדף
> to push away; To cast out, to drive out, eject, to thrust, to push. Refers to the purification of the body-cells by elimination of the "shells of the dead" or Qlippoth. This is accomplished by clear vision (Heh), creative imagination and strong desire (Daleth) and the overthrow of the false conception of personality (Peh). See [Deuteronomy 9:4](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/9-4.htm), [809](809).

---

### [yawda](/keys/IHDO) - יהדע
> To see, to know.

---

### [odidah](/keys/ODIDA) - עדידא
> This ornament.

---

### [dapah](/keys/DPH) - דפה
> to provoke, mock, blaspheme. The result of failure to understand what the word גוף really means.

---

### [Mechial](/keys/MChIAL) - מחיאל
> *"god who vivifies all things."* Angel assigned to 316°-320° of the divine names. 64th Shemhamphorash. ASTIRO. May 22, August 2, October 13, December 24, March 6, 9:00-9:20. [Psalm 33:18](http://biblehub.com/psalms/33-18.htm): *"Behold, the Lord's eye is upon those who fear him-who revere and worship Him with awe; who wait for him and hope in His mecy and loving-kindness."* Against adversities; governs the prayers and wishes of those who trust in the Mercy of God. This Shemhamphorash, and those following to the 72nd, belong to the choir of angels. Protects against rage and ferocious animals; rules savants, professors, orators, and authors; influences printing offices and libraries, and all those established in commerce. Person born under this influence distinguishes himself in literature. see [965](965), [1525](1525).

---

### [tawph](/keys/TP) - טף
> "children"; mentioned in the departure of the Isrealities from Egypt, in [Exodus 12:37](http://biblehub.com/exodus/12-37.htm): *"the Israelites journeyed from Rameses to Succoth. There were abut six hundred thousand men on foot, besides women and children."* see [809](809).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Aula Lucis](/latin?word=Aula+Lucis) (Lt)
> The Temple of Light. Title of one of the alchemical writings of Thomas Vaughan.

---

### [Anima Mundi](/latin?word=Anima+Mundi) (Lt)
> Soul of the world. Mother Nature active on the physical plane. *"For itself is the universal and sparkling flame of the light of nature, which has the heavenly spirit in itself, with which it was animated at first by God, who prevades all things, and is called by Auicenna, the Soul of the World."* [[Hermetic Huseum I. p. 78](https://archive.org/stream/b24927363_0001#page/78)]

> A. E. Waite, describing the Mercury symbol says: *"The cescent denotes the lunar part, which is feminine, and volatile in nature: This is the spiritus mercurii. The medial circle has no point in the center, signifying the immature state of Mercurial Sulphur Solis: This is the Anima Mundi of Quicksilver. The cross at the base represents the volatile body of the metallic substance."* [[Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross, p. 460](https://archive.org/stream/A.EWaiteTheBrotherhoodOfTheRosyCross/A.%20E%20Waite%20-%20The%20Brotherhood%20of%20the%20Rosy%20Cross#page/n475)] see [55](55)

---

### [Cibus animae](/latin?word=Cibus+animae) (Lt)
> Food of the Soul.

---

### [Hermetis](/latin?word=Hermetis) (Lt)
> of Hermes, i.e. Hermetic.

---

### [pyramis](/latin?word=pyramis) (Lt)
> pyramid. Classical Latin spelling. "Fire in the Midst." The Fire of Life, which renews and transforms all physical things. Also connected with self-conscious attention and clear vision. see [Key 4](4).

---

### [Argentum](/latin?word=Argentum) (Lt)
> Silver. Metal of the Moon and of subconsciousness. In alchemy it is one of the higher brain centers which have access to cosmic memory. Its highest aspect is "Living Silver . see [166](166), [77](77) (Latin)

---

### [Sal Artis](/latin?word=Sal+Artis) (Lt)
> Salt of the Art. [Hermetic Museum: Gloria Mundi, p. 176]: *"The enigma of the wise (the stone) is the salt and root of the art, and, as it were, its key, without which no one is able either to lock or unlock its secret entrance. No man can understand this art who does not know the salt and its preparation, which takes place in a convenient spot that is both moist and warm; there the dissolution of its liquid must be accomplished while its substance remains unimpaired. These are the words of Geber."* Case notes that sal artis = 89 = Argentum = Anima Mundi.

---

### English Gematria:

- [Judgment](/english?word=Judgment) *([Fama Intro p.13](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13))*
- [worst](/english?word=worst) *([Fama Intro p.14](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n14))*
- [Mathematic](/english?word=Mathematic) *([Fama p.3](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/3))*

---

### See Also:

- [17](17)
- [8](8)
