## 91 - Ninety-One
> ([7](7)x[13](13)) Σ13 = 91. The 7 lines of a heptagram each of 13 units.

> *"The area of a heptagon with sides of five feet is almost exactly 91 square feet."* [True and Invisible (Weiser) p. 119]

---

### [amen](/keys/AMN) - אמן
> so be it. A title of Kether. As a verb: to be firm, to be faithful, to support, to rear up, to nurture, to foster; also faithfulness, truth, credibility. As a masculine noun: artificer, artist, master workman. see [155](155), [620](620).

> *"Qabalists also understood this word to represent the combination of the divine names יהוה ([26](26)) and אדני, Adonai ([65](65)). It is, of course, obvious that 91 is 7x13, so that it is the sum of the last two digits of [758](758), multiplied by the first digit, and we have seen that the whole symbolism of the vault [of Brother C.R.] is intimated in the Hebrew noun נחשת, [Nekosheth](/keys/NChShTh), which means copper, and adds to 758. Since the top and bottom of the vault are equal heptagons, the area of this floor is like that of the ceiling, or amen above and amen below. That is to say, faithfulness above and faithfulness below. This would have been familiar indeed to students of alchemy, who had by heart the dictum of Hermes 'That which is above is as that which is below, and that which is below is as that which is above.'"* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, (4th), p. 197] see [758](758), [462](462).

> *"The Ordinary numeration of אמן is 91, the sum of the number from 0 to 13. So taken, אמן stands for the full expression of the concepts of unity and love (Achd, Achad and אהבה, Ahebah), each of which is [13](13) in Hebrew. But sometimes a final Nun is understood to represent the number [700](700). By this reckoning אמן would be the number 741. This is also related to 13, for as 91 is 7x13, so [741](741) is 3x13x19. Thus the facts of 741, written as Hebrew words would be AB (3) x אחד (13) X חוה (19), or Father x Unity x Mother (Eve). The occult meanings of אמן as 741 is therefore the power of the Father, which is one power, manifested through the agency of the Mother. Again, אמן, taken as 9 is equivalent in numeration to the words יהוה אדני, [Jehovah Adonai](/keys/IHVH.ADNI), God the Lord. All these Qabalisms serve a single purpose. They indicate that the quality of consciousness distinguished by the word אמן, Amen, Faithful, is fundamentally of the nature of the Primal Will, and is the actual power whereby forms are brought into manifestation. Thus St. Paul, trained by Rabbi Hillel, declared: 'Faith is the substance of things hoped for.'"* [Paul Case: op. cit. pp. 384-385]

---

### [ha-Elohim](/keys/HALHIM) - האלהים
> The Creative Powers (of God), of the Elohim, The God. [Deuteronomy 4:35](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/4-35.htm), [Exodus 3:1](http://biblehub.com/exodus/3-1.htm). see [86](86), [503](503), [103](103).

Also, "the gods." See [492](492). [Genesis 5:24](https://biblehub.com/genesis/5-24.htm): *"And Enoch walked with God [the gods]: and he was not; for God took him."*

---

### [malak](/keys/MLAK) - מלאך
> one sent, angel. A certain type of personality -- a conscious "messenger" of the Higher Self. A seer or prophet. see [90](90). In connection with Sarai, in [Genesis 16:7](http://biblehub.com/genesis/16-7.htm): *"And the angel of the Lord found her by a fountain of water in the wilderness, by the fountain on the road to Gadar."*

> Vav precedes the Mem in ומלאך [umalak](/keys/VMLAK) in the Hebrew of [2 Kings 1:3](http://biblehub.com/2_kings/1-3.htm): *"But the angel of the Lord said unto Elijah the Tishbite, arise, go up to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria, and say unto them, is it not because there is not a God in Israel, they ye go to enquire of Baalzebub the God of Ekron?"*

---

### [mekala](/keys/MKLA) - מכלא
> in all things. In the LESSER HOLY ASSEMBLY it is written, *"The Name of the Ancient One is concealed in all things."* Even in those appearances which seem severe and destructive, the Ancient One is awakening His units of expression, human personality.

---

### [maekahl](/keys/MAKL) - מאכל
> Food, meal, fare, mealtime. The Higher Self is the food which nourishes the personality.

---

### [malka](/keys/MLKA) - מלכא
> Queen (Aramic) [Godwin]

---

### [Malkah](/keys/MLKA) - מלכא
> Daughter, virgin, bride. A title of Malkuth. Compare with מלאך, [maleawk](/keys/MLAK), angel, messenger, and note that מלאך, כמאל, מכלא are all written with the same letters. NOTE WELL. see [259](259) (Greek), [496](496), [55](55)

---

### [Kamael](/keys/KMAL) - כמאל
> "Severity of God," The Archangel associated with the positive aspects of Geburah and the 5 of Cups. He is a symbol of the Life power manifesting as the force we feel within us as volition.

---

### [mekala](/keys/MKLA) - מכלא
> In all things [Lesser Holy Assembly]. "The name of the ancient one is concealed in all things."

---

### [manna](/keys/MNA) - מנא
> Manna, the divine nourishment of the Israelites in the wilderness (variant spelling see [90](90)).

---

### [mene](/keys/MNA) - מנא
> Numbered. One of the words in the handwriting on the wall described in [Daniel 5:26](http://biblehub.com/daniel/5-26.htm). See [131](131), [231](231), [35](35). Metathesis of אמן, amen. Note that in the quotation Mene is repeated twice: "And this is the writing that was written: Mene Mene Tekel Upharsin."

---

### [kissaiy](/keys/KSAI) - כסאי
> My throne. According to [Isaiah 66:1](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/66-1.htm), *"The heaven is my throne"*.

> [Ezekiel 43:7](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/43-7.htm) uses this term in a context which intimates that the place of the throne has suffered defilement by the wicked. The throne itself is Kether, but the place of the throne is the Ego manifesting through human personality and it may be defiled by actions resulting from belief in personal will.

---

### [sokeh](/keys/SVKH) - סוכה
> branch, or bough Hebrew lexicon: bush shrub. When one enters into the higher consciousness one perceives one's relation to the great whole, as in Jesus words: "I am the vine, and ye (the apostles) are the branches." With different vowel points, Sukkoh: a hut, tent, booth.

---

### [kavvanah](/keys/KVINH) - כוינה
> fervor, intention, intent, attention, devotion, intense meditation. A Rabbinical term describing a mental practice akin to yoga. The means whereby one becomes receptive to the influx of the Holy influence (מזלא) descending from Kether. Through meditation, kavvanah, we are shown the true nature of the power we experience as will, which we receive from Geburah (see Kamael).

---

### [Adonai Jehovah](/keys/ADNI.IHVH) - אדני יהוה
> Lord God. [Jeremiah 32:17](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/32-17.htm): *"Alas, Lord God! Behold, you made the heavens and the earth by Your great power and by Your stretched out arm! There is nothing too hard or too wonderful for You."*

> [Judges 6:22](http://biblehub.com/judges/6-22.htm): *"And when Gideon perceived that He was the Angel of the Lord, Gideon said, Alas, O Lord God! For now I have seen the Angel of the Lord face to face."*

---

### [aesel](/keys/ASL) - אסל
> pole; yoke for carrying burdens. Refers to Kether as the supporter of the activities of a whole cycle of the Lifepower's self-expression.

---

### [ephod](/keys/APVD) - אסל
> Upper garment; breastplate of the Jewish High Priest of Israel, similar to the chasuble used by christian priest. It was made of threads of gold, blue, purple, scarlet and fine linen. The gold was a symbol of the sun, blue for water, purple for air, the scarlet for fire and linen for earth. [Exodus 39:2](http://biblehub.com/exodus/39-2.htm): *"They made the Ephod of gold, and of blue, purple and scarlet yarn, and of finely twisted linen."*

---

### [ailan](/keys/AILN) - אילן
> tree. The Tree of Life.

---

### [yahdunhi](/keys/IAHDVNHI) - יאהדונהי
> The letters of IHVH ADNI (IHVH Adonai) intermixed.

---

### [pekt](/keys/PAHH) - פאהה
> extension. Part of a mystic phrase meaning "Light in Extension" or L.V.X. see [65](65)

---

### [Caliel](/keys/KLIAL) - כליאל
> "God prompt to fulfill." 18th Shemhamphorash; 86°- 90°; JUSITIA. To obtain prompt aid. [Psalm 9:9](http://biblehub.com/psalms/9-9.htm): Judica me domine secundum justitiam meam et secundum innocentiam meam super me. *"And he shall judge the world in righteousness, he shall minister judgement to the people in uprightness"*

> Makes truth known in law suits, causes innocence to triumph. Just, honest, loves truth, judiciary. negative influence: scandalous trials, base men. Godwin gives: Kaliel; angel of the sixth quinance (26°- 30°) of Libra; angel by night of the 4 of Swords. This represents the influence of Chesed or cosmic memory (4) in Yetzirah, the Formative World. see [965](965), [1525](1525), [60](60).

---

### [Sal](/keys/SAL) - סאל
> Sael; 45th name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 3rd quinance (Flos auri (Lt). Flower of gold [Secret Symbols page 5]. *"Salve, soul, gold of the philosophers, and flower of gold."* This is the Quintessence. see [131](131), [231](231).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Stirps](/latin?word=Stirps)
> a race, family.

---

### [Flos auri](/latin?word=Flos+auri) (Lt)
> Flower of gold [Secret Symbols page 5]. *"Salve, soul, gold of the philosophers, and flower of gold."* This is the Quintessence. see [131](131), [231](231).

---

### [Sal et sol](/latin?word=Sal+et+sol) (Lt)
> Salt and Sun. Alchemically salt and gold The word Sal, salt, has a qabalistic correspondence to [7](7) because its value is [28](28), the extension of 7. An instruction of the Freres Chevaliers read in part: *"(2) What is truth? --it is the Great Architect of the Universe. (3) What has declared it unto you? --His works, and the work of my hands. (4) How in his works? --all his creatures testify concerning him. (5) How do the work of you hands? --because I have seen the likeness of his creation. (6) Who taught you this work? --our excellent master. (7) What did he teach you? --that in salt and sol we have all things. (8) What is the sun?-it is the work of the philosophers."* [Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross, p. 473] see [78](78), [231](231) Greek.

---

### [trinus](/latin?word=trinus) (Lt)
> triple, threefold. Related to a truth that the essential reality is one, yet in threefold aspect.

---

### See Also:

- [10](10)
- [1](1)
