## 92 - Ninety-Two
> (4x23) A complete pyramid with 4 lines of 10 units each for a base and 4 lines of 13 units for its sloping edges.

---

### [Pachad](/keys/PChD) - פחד
> fear, terror, dread, object of fear. One of the names of the 5th Sephirah. It represents the emotional approach of ignorance to the rigid severities of natural law and natural forces. A clue to the deeper meaning of the name Pachad is the plural form, פחדים, [pachadim](/keys/PChDIM), "loins" or "thighs" in the English Bible, in Latin versions it is called testiculi. This links with the meaning of Geburah as the Sphere of Mars, for Geburah is held to be the seat of virile strength, and Mars rules the reproductive functions governed by Scorpio. (Pachad is translated "stones" in [Job 40:17](http://biblehub.com/job/40-17.htm).) see [64](64), [95](95), [216](216), [142](142), [297](297), [850](850).

> - *The Tower, [Key 16](16): No form is permanent, not does any form separate a portion of the One Identity from the whole of that identity. The reality manifested at any point in space is identical with the reality existing at all points in space. The reality existing in the present is identical with the reality which has continued unbroken through the past and will continue unbroken through the future...*
> - *The Chariot, [Key 7](7): The One Reality is the field of its own manifestation, the vehicle of its own existence: and that One Reality is the directive principle in human beings, designated by the pronoun 'I'...*
> - *The Empress, [Key 3](3): Nature is the manifestation power of the One identity. In all nature no force opposes itself to that One. All the forces of nature, with no exception, are instruments for expressing that free will of that One Identity. Whatever appears to the contrary is illusion, and the acceptance of that illusion for truth is the delusion that binds the ignorant."*

> [[Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (Weiser), pp. 244-245](https://archive.org/stream/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985#page/n250)]. The truth behind the letters of this word is part of the doctrines of Greater Adept.

---

### [hagadolim](/keys/HGDLIM) - הגדלים
"the great". [Genesis 1:16](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-16.htm): *"And God made two great lights"*

---

### [Beth/Tzaddi](/keys/B.Tz) - ב ץ
> Mercury in Aquarius. The power of the intellect (Mercury) to dissolve (Aquarius) the delusions inherent in physical existence.

---

### [botz](/keys/BTz) - בץ
> whitish clay, mire, bog. This refers to the ignorant as persons immersed in the illusions of physical existence.

---

### [Habi'ad](/keys/HABI-OD) - האבי־עד
> The everlasting father.

---

### [velohim](/keys/VALHIM) - ואלהים
> and the Creative Powers.

---

### [Jehovah Elohekah](/keys/IHVH.ALHIK) - יהוה אלהיך
> The Lord thy God. [Deuteronomy 28:58](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/28-58.htm): *"If thou wilt not observe to do all the words of this law that are written in this book, that thou mayest fear this glorious and fearful name, THE LORD THY GOD"*.

---

### [sukkoh](/keys/SVKV) - סוכו
> pavilion, tent, "his tabernacle". [Psalm 76:2](http://biblehub.com/psalms/76-2.htm). Where it is said to be Salem, i.e. peace. Brings out the idea that אלהים (name used for God in the [76th Psalm](http://biblehub.com/kjv/psalms/76.htm)) pervades the entire field of manifestation. see [86](86), [1961](1961)

---

### [chesed-ka](/keys/ChSDK) - חסדך
> thy loving kindness. [Psalm 138:2](http://biblehub.com/psalms/138-2.htm). It shows the difference between a wise man's reaction to the power of the 5th Sephirah and that of the ignorant. What the ignorant fear, the wise interpret correctly as loving kindness. Note that the latter is Chesed, the fourth Sephirah. see [72](72), [216](216), [64](64), [572](572), [725](725)

---

### [Oziah](/keys/OZIH) - עזיה
> the "Strength of Yah," the Life-force seated in Chokmah. see [23](23).

---

### [Anial](/keys/ANIAL) - אניאל
> "God of Virtues" 37th Shemhamphorash; Angel of 5 of Swords. 181°-185° SOUCHO . Moon. April 25, July 6, September 16, November ?2?7, February 7. 12:00-12:20 PM. Psalm: (Deus ad virtutem convetoe nos: ot osten ??? toam et saumerimus). To gain victory and to raise the siege of a city. Rules the sciences and arts: reveals the secrets of nature and inspires wise philosophers in their meditations. Person born: acquires celebrity through his talents and enlightenment, he will be distinguished among savants. see [965](965), [1525](1525).

> Godwin gives: Angel of the 1st quinance (1-5°) of Aquarius; angel by day of the 5 of Swords. This represents the influence of Geburah, sphere of Mars, in Yetzirah, the Formative World.

---

### [tzab](/keys/TzB) - צב
> litter, covered wagon. [Isaiah 66:20](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/66-20.htm): *"And they will being all your brothers, from all the nations, to my Holy Mountain in Jerusalem as an offering to the Lord -- on horses, in chariots and wagons, and on mules and camels,' says the Lord."*

---

### [umoom](/keys/VMVM) - ומום
> "Flaws". This word as "defects" appears in [Canticles 4:7](http://biblehub.com/songs/4-7.htm): *"All beautiful you are, my darling; there is no flaw in you."*

> Cario Suares comments: *"The Key word of this verse is ומום oomoom... in which the male energy is seen as being doubled by two Vavs, so as to meet the duality. One Vav is received by the biosphere Mem (ומ) and the other is projected cosmically, still retaining its male quality (ום). This happens when, mystically speaking the flesh gives birth to, or becomes spirit."* [The Song of Songs, p. 97]. But note that here one of the Vavs is missing, i.e. it is "defective".

---

## Latin/Greek:

---

### [sigillum](/latin?word=sigillum) (Lt)
> Seal. Its most important use in the Bible is in the Apocalypse, where it is employed to indicate the seals that closed the book of the Lamb, 7 in number. These seals are the same as the interior stars. An alchemical term to designate the "inner fire of the true sulphur."

---

### English Gematria:

- [pleasure](/english?word=pleasure) *([Fama Intro p.13](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13))*
- [Theologie](/english?word=Theologie) *([Fama p.3](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/3))*

---

### See Also:

- [11](11)
- [2](2)