## 93 - Ninety-Threee
> (3x31)

---

###/keys/G-Tz Gimel/Tzaddi
> Moon in Aquarius.

---

###/keys/TzBA tzabaw
> to go forth in a body; to assemble, to mass, to go forth to war. Root of Tzabaoth (525, divine name associated with Netzach). Also 3x31, or the value of the divine name AL, attributed to Chesed. The going-forth of the one power is for overcoming every appearance of evil and vanquishing every form of disease, in harmony, and lack. As a noun: army, host, warfare, war, military service, service, fixed time.

---

###/keys/BNI AL Beni El
> Sons of God.

---

###/keys/MGN mawgen
> a disk, Shield. Symbol of God as the protector, and especially connected with the hexagram (see [107](107)).

---

###/keys/MGN miggane
> to deliver up, deliver to; defense, protection.

---

###/keys/LBVNH Lebonah
> Frankincense. A symbol of aspiration, attributed to the sun, (heart center) and Sunday, Tiphareth.

---

###/keys/NChLH nakhelah
> torrent, stream, valley, ravine; shaft of a mine. As a feminine noun: NChLH inheritance, possession, property, destiny, fate. see [3](3), [12](12), [21](21), [30](30), [39](39), [48](48), [57](57), [66](66), [75](75), [84](84), [102](102).

---

###/keys/BAILIM bailim
> "In the powers." see [236](236).

---

###/keys/AHLIBMH Aholibamah
> "Tent of the Height". Name of a wife of Esau. Godwin gives: A duke of Edom, associated with Chesed. Mathers, in [Sepher Sephiroth p. 14] cites [Ezekiel 23] also, concerning Ohilibah, a prostitute in Egypt. [Genesis 36:41] "Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon... ([43](43)) These were the Chiefs of Edom, according to their settlements in the land they occupied."

---

###/keys/GTz getz
> spark; hardened mud. [K.D.L.C.K. p. 700] The "sparks" are the beginning of individuality, the seeds of Yod planted by the divine in the "mud" or physical plane, to evolve into humanity.

---

###/keys/BLADVN Baladon
> "Not-Lord" or "Not-man". "The name of the [evil] lion is Ariel [ARIAL = 242] as his face is that of a lion (sun), a dog [Zohar prologue 6.6]. The lion was "slain" by the Lord of hosts and went into the pit, and the dog Baladon was sent by the evil monster there to consume the offerings. The Lion of Moab in this passage refers to one of the temples of the father in heaven, who darkened the light of Israel.

---

### [hayebushi](/keys/HIBVSI) - היבוסי
The Jebusite. Sons of [Canaan](/keys/QNON). "trodden down." see [93](93). [Genesis 10:16](https://biblehub.com/genesis/10-16.htm): *"**And the Jebusite**, and the Amorite, and the Girgasite"*

---

## Greek/Latin

---

### eulogium (Lt)
> eulogy. see 519 Greek.

---

### luna mater (Lt)
> "The moon is its mother." From the Emerald Tablet of Hermes.

---

### omnia ab uno (Lt)
> all is from one. Alchemical and Rosicrucian term.

---

### agapeh (Greek)
> love, spiritual love, brotherly love; charity. Used in the New Testament. Possibly a transliteration of AHBH (see [13](13)).

[John 15:9-10] "As the Father loved me, and I loved you, abide in my love. (10) If you observe my commandments, you shall abide in my love; as I have observed the Father's commandments, and abide in His love." Of love among christians, in [1 Thessalonians 3:12] "And may the Lord cause you to be full and to overflow with love to each other, and to all even, as we also to you." And in [2 Corinthians 8:7] "But as you abound in everything-in faith, and in word, and in knowledge, and in all earnestness, and in your love to us, see that you abound in the free gift also." Hence, love in general, holy love, without specifying a definite object, e.g. as an attribute of God, in [1 John 4:7] "Beloved! we should love each other knows God." And as a christian grace, in [Romans 12:8] "Let love be unfeigned, detest the evil; adhere to the good."

Mackey writes: "The word used by the apostle [Paul] is in the original [Greek word], or love, a word denoting that kindly state of mind which renders a person full of good-will and affectionate regard toward others." [Encyclopedia of Freemasonry, p. 158]

---

### thelema (Greek)
> choice, determination; will, decree.

---

### permanens (Latin)
> permanent, enduring. What is eternal, i.e. the spirit of life. see [129](129), [36](36) (Latin).

---

### Sit Lux (Latin)
> "Let there be Light [Genesis 1:3] "and the Elohim said "Let there be Light", Thomas Vaughan: "...These invisible central artist are lights seeded by the first light, in that primitive emanation, or Sit Lux 'let there be light." [Work: Anima Magica Abscondita, p. 55] see [44](44), [49](49) (Latin); [206](206).

---

### See Also:

- 12
- 3
- [Bible Wheel: 93](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=93)
