## 94 - Ninety-Four
> 2x47. The sum of the top and bottom edges of the trapezoid forming a face of the unfinished pyramid of the Great Seal of the U.S.

Length of the Hidden Paths corresponding to √13 on the Tree of Life when Aleph=26: 2-10, 3-10.

### [Uphaz](/keys/AVPZ) - אופז
> A corruption of the word Ophir, a place from whence Solomon got his Gold. The Himyaritic "Ophir" means "red" and this is the Key to the whole mystery. The alchemical Sun arose in Arabia, and it was from that country that Solomon obtained his Sulfur for the Great Work of manufacturing Gold, which Hiram Abif carried on for him. Hiram has the same meaning as Christ or Hermes and means Mercury, or the active principle [D.D. Bryant, The Art of Alchemy, X]. see [254](254), [19](19), [273](273). [Jeremiah 10:9](Jeremiah 10:9): *"Silver spread into plates is brought from Tarshish, and Gold from Uphaz..."*

### [guphawh](/keys/GVPH) - גופה
> body, corpse. The manufacture of gold is in the physical body; without it, the body becomes a corpse. see [89](89)

### [Ildim](/keys/ILDIM) - ילדים
> Children. From ילד, [eled](/keys/ILD), child, son, young man, boy, youth. In the words of Jesus: "Unless you become as a little child, you shall in no wise enter the Kingdom of Heaven."

### [laybawbekem](/keys/LBBKM) - לבבכם
> "your hearts". [Deuteronomy 10:16](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/10-16.htm): *"Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your hearts, and be no more stiffnecked."* Gold is centered in the heart; opening the heart center is the key to success in the Great Work. see [794](794), [1711](1711).

### [haenaykaw](/keys/ChNIKV) - חניכו
> "his trained men". [Genesis 14:14](http://biblehub.com/genesis/14-14.htm). Means initiate. see [318](318), [88](88).

### [hallon](/keys/ChLVN) - חלון
> Window. The meaning of Heh, i.e. clear vision as to how the "gold" may be obtained.

### [tayphaw](/keys/TPH) - טפה
> drop; a drop. The solar radiance or "liquid gold" is composed of innumerable "drops" or Yods, which are full of life-energy.

### [layhawtim](/keys/LHTIM) - להטים
> enchantments, secret arts. From להט flame, magic. see [44](44). [Exodus 7:11](http://biblehub.com/exodus/7-11.htm): *"Then Pharaoh called for the wise men [skilled in magic and divination] and the sorcerers-wizards and jugglers. And they also, these magicians of Egypt, did similar things with their enchantments and secret arts."* [Exodus 8:7](http://biblehub.com/exodus/8-7.htm): *"And the Magicians [of Egypt] did so with their enchantments."* The secret of alchemy is employed for success in the great work.

### [dawak](/keys/DOK) - דעך
> to flicker, go out, be extinguished; to crush. The sense of separation.

### [dopay](/keys/DPI) - דפי
> blemish, fault; destruction. [Psalm 50:20](http://biblehub.com/psalms/50-20.htm): *"Against thy Mother's Son thou does allege a fault."* The son is Tiphareth; the mother is Binah.

### [choph](/keys/ChVP) - חוף
> coast, shore, harbor. The goal of the voyage or evolution of life.

### [tzadh](/keys/TzD) - צד
> side (Godwin). [missing Paul Case's comments] Fabre D'Olivet writes: *"צד. That which is insidious, artful, double, sly, opposed, adverse, deceitful, seductive. The Arabic [word] presents in general, the same sense as the Hebrew; that is to say, every idea of opposition, defense. [Arabic word] expresses the state of quarreling, disputing. צד in a literal sense, very restricted, the side; in a broad and figurative sense, a secret, dissimulating hindrance; an artifice, a snare."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 432]

### [madim](/keys/MDIM) - מדים
> "Power of Vehement Strength", i.e. Mars, variant spelling, according to Godwin. see [654](654), [95](95), [655](655).

### [Menad](/keys/MND) - מנד
> prickley; 36th Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 6th quinance (26°-30°) of Capricorn. see [125](125), [1525](1525).

## Latin/Greek

### [seclorum](/latin?word=seclorum) (Lt)
> of the ages; of the aeons. Part of the motto: "A new order of the ages" on the Great Seal of the U.S. see [46](46), [80](80), [126](126), [220](220), [370](370) Latin.

### [sol pater](/latin?word=sol+pater) (Lt)
> Sun Father [see Emerald Tablet]. The interior "Sun" hidden in the microcosmic "earth" is the Ego.

### [Victrix](/latin?word=Victrix) (Lt)
> Victory. Latin name of Venus. Aligning our desires with the blessed one gives us the sign of victory. Benedictus (Latin). blessed. Part of a Rosicrucian saying ("Blessed in the Lord our God who gave to us a sign") see [518](518) (Latin).

### [alpha et omega](/latin?word=alpha+et+omega) (Lt)
> The first and the last, the beginning and the end. Latin transliteration of Greek, as in [Revelation 22:13](http://biblehub.com/revelation/22-13.htm): *"I am alpha and omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last."* Part of a phrase in Secret Symbols. see [717](717), [34](34), [37](37) (Latin). The name of the Golden Dawn under Mathers in Paris, London, Edindurah and the U.S.

### [fortune](/english?word=fortune) (English)
A key-word in Bacon's word cipher.

### See Also:

- [13](13)
- [4](4)
