## 95 - Ninety-Five
> (5x19)

---

### [Madim](/keys/MADIM) - מאדים
> Mars. "powers of vehement strength". see [655](655), [92](92), [216](216), [297](297), [850](850).

---

### [Daniel](/keys/DNIAL) - דניאל
> A judge from God. Old Testament name, the prophet and astrologer. Combines the words דין [Dan](/keys/DIN) with אל [Al](/keys/AL), so that it is a symbol of the expression of the latent powers of Chesed through the activities of the Geburah (דין, Justice).

> Also [Daniel](/keys/DNIAL), "The giver of mercies", angel of the 2 of Wands; 50th Shemhamphorash, "God is Judge", the angel of confession. [Kircher Oed. eg. V.2 pp. 266-267] 246°-250°. EREGGMO. May 8, July 19, September 29, December 10, February 20, 4:20-4:40 PM. [Psalm 103:8](http://biblehub.com/psalms/103-8.htm): *"The Lord (IHVH) is full of compassion and graciousness, slow to anger and plenteous in mercy."* To obtain the mercy of God, and to receive consolation. Rules justice, lawyers, and all magistrates in general. Gives inspiration to those who are embarrassed by too many affairs and do not know exactly how to decide. Persons born: industrious and active in affairs, loves literature, and distinguishes himself by his eloquence.

> Godwin gives: *"Angel of the 2nd quinance (6°-10°) of Aries; angel by night of the 2 of Wands. This represents the operation of Chokmah, sphere of the Zodiac in the archetypal place of ideas (Atziluth). According to Davidson, the name means "God is my Judge": an angel of the Order of Principalities, according to Waite, The Lemegeton. Daviel (as Danjal) is one of a troop of fallen angels, listed in Enoch I. In the lower regions he exercise authority over lawyers."* [Dictionary of Angels, p. 94]

---

### [ha-mem](/keys/HMIM) - המים
> the waters. Its refers to the "waters" from which all organic life is spawned. see [90](90).

---

### [hahman](/keys/HMN) - המן
> to be turbulent. Refers to the restless activity associated with Mars and the [5th Sephirah](5).

---

### [Tribe of Zebulon](/keys/ZBVLN) - זבולן
> "habitation." Cancer. Connected with alchemical separation--the establishment of the personal purpose, the formulation of the particular definition. The subtle is divided from the gross and the distinction between appearance and essence is clearly marked.

> In [Genesis 49:13](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-13.htm): *"Zebulun shall dwell at the haven of the sea; and he shall be for a haven of ships."* This established a clear correspondence the watery sign of Cancer ([Key 7](7)) and the 4th House (associated with the home as a "haven") [In the 4th house astrologers seek for indications as to the end of a matter--for indications of what cargo we may expect when our ship comes in]. Compare [Domus](64), (64).

> Also [Deuteronomy 33:19](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/33-19.htm): *"For they will suck the abundance of the seas and the hidden treasure of the sand."* see [45](45), [90](90).

> Compare with the symbolism of [Key 7](7), in which the idea of habitation is strong, by the reason of the walled city in the background. [Links up also with habit, pattern, ritual by virtue of Cancer being ruled by the Moon or sub-consciousness] see Key [2](2), [64](64), [418](418), [867](867), [319](319), [100](100), [30](30), [570](570), [501](501), [54](54), [162](162), [830](830), [395](395), [259](259), [7](7), [331](331), [466](466).

---

### [mahalak](/keys/MHLK) - מהלך
> way, journey, walk, distance, free access. This idea is also suggested by the chariot in the foreground of [Key 7](7). Furthermore, it is implied in the general meaning Zebulun, for a haven for ships is at the end of a voyage or journey.

---

### [Malkah](/keys/MLKH) - מלכה
> the bride, a queen. One of the titles of Malkuth. The alchemical queen is connected with whiteness, analogous to Silver and the Moon. She is the bride of the king in Tiphareth, the heart center and sun-power. see [55](55), [496](496), [148](148).

> *"Yet is Malkuth also כלה ([Kallah](/keys/KLH)) the Bride, and מלכה ([Malkah](/keys/MLKH)) the Queen... Yet more, Malkah is written with the letters of המלך, the [King](/keys/MLK), and the King is [Tiphareth](/keys/ThPARTh), yet is Tiphareth תפארת or [1081](1081), and the seed of this is [10](10) which is both [Malkuth](/keys/MLKVTh) and [Yod](/keys/I). Extended downward, Tiphareth is completed in Malkuth, even as Tiphareth itself is the King or Royal Son, one with his Father, and that Father is אב in Chokmah which also is the body of Yod. Again, מלכה (Malkah) is 95 and this is the number of the name of the letter [Peh spelt in plenitude](/keys/PH-HH) פה־הה...Thus is [Malkah](/keys/MLKH) truly as a Queen, also the Queen's daughter all glorious within. Now she holdeth the mystery of union, and thus is she known to the Sons of the Doctrine of אבנ־גדלה the "[Great Stone](/keys/ABN.GDLH)," that is by interpretation the perfect union in Chesed or Gedulah of the Father אב with the Son בן."* [26th Communication]

---

### [ha-Melek](/keys/HMLK) - המלך
> The king. i.e. Tiphareth. see [90](90), [1081](1081).

---

### [monah](/keys/MNH) - מנה
> to appoint, ordain or number.

---

### [selah](/keys/SLH) - סלה
> A word occurring often in the Psalm, the meaning of which is obscure. It indicates the end of a thought. a musical term (in Psalms); for ever. Mathers, in [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 15] cites [Psalm 32:4](http://biblehub.com/psalms/32-4.htm): *"for night and day your hand was heavy upon me; my strength was sapped as in the heat of summer. ([5](http://biblehub.com/psalms/32-5.htm)) Selah. Then I acknowledge my sin to you and did not cover un my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord--and you forgave the guilt of my sin. Selah."*

---

### [peh heh](/keys/PH-HH) - פה־הה
> Letter name Peh spelt in full. The mouth of the eternal and said to be the secret of the covenant with spiritual Israel. see [85](85), [463](463).

> *"95... this is the number of the name of the letter Peh spelt in plenitude פה־הה, so that in the first of these four letters you may see the mouth of the Eternal, and in the other three Hehs three-fold vision of past and present and of time to come, for are they not three Hehs? Yet see further. Their whole addition is 15, and this is יה, [Jah](/keys/IH), the Holy name of Chokmah, and הוד [Hod](/keys/HVD), the Splendor of the Presence.*

> *"Comment: One of the most important points in this section is the Gematria of פה־הה. What the text does not say, though well known to Qabalists, is that P. is the letter of Mars. So that פה־הה must express a total Martian activity. Indeed all four letters of this full spelling of Peh are related to Mars."* [26th Communication]

---

### [ehben-gedul](/keys/ABN.GDHL) - אבן גדהל
> The great stone. Refers to the perfect union in Chesed or Gedulah of the Father אב, and son בן.

---

### [Hahaiah](/keys/HHOIH) - ההעיה
> 12th Shemhamphorash; angel of 10 of Pentacles. (Dieu Refuge). 56°-60° ATARPH. March 31, June 11, August 22, November 2, January 13. Psalm: *"Ut quid domine recessiti longe, despicis in opportunitatibus, intribulatione".* Rules dreams, and reveals mysteries hidden from mortals. Influences persons wise, spiritual and discrete. Persons born: sweet-tempered, amicable physiognomy, agreeable manners. Godwin gives: Hihyah; angle of sixth quinance (26°-30°) of Virgo; angel by night of the 10 of Pentacles. This represents the influence of the sphere of the elements in the physical plane of action. Davidson says he is an angel of the Order of Cherubim, and that his corresponding angel is ATARPH.

---

### [gia chizayawn](/keys/GIA.ChZIVN) - גיא חזיון
> The valley of vision. Title heading of [Isaiah 22:1](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/22-1.htm). Refers to "breaking down the walls". see [17](17), [81](81), [745](745).

---

## Greek/Latin

---

### [insitum](/latin?word=insitum) (Lt)
> planted. Occurs in the Fama, in the motto: Granum Pectori Jesu Insitum, A seed planted in the Breast of Jesus. Note that Pectus, the breast, is the part of the human body governed by Cancer.

---

### [salvator](/latin?word=salvator) (Lt)
> savior. see [158](158).

---

### [morimur](/latin?word=morimur) (Lt)
> we die. After the seed is planted, we must die to the old and be "saved." Part of a saying, found in the vault of C.R. in the Rosicrucian allegory, which includes the phrase "in Jesus we die." see [683](683) (Latin).

---

### [confessio](/latin?word=confessio) (Lt)
> confession. Part of the title of one of the first Rosicrucian pamphlets, the Confessio Fraternitatis. To confess is to acknowledge or make known. see [241](241) (Lt).

---

### See Also:

- [14](14)
- [5](5)