## 96 - [Ninety-Six](/keys/TzV)
> (8x3x4)

---

### [Sod IHVH](/keys/SVD.IHVH) - סוד יהוה
> The secret of the Tetragrammaton. It has to do with the various appearances reported by the senses and is a mystery of renewal and regeneration. In has been preserved generation after generation, in the assembly of the inner school. see [70](70), [700](700).

> Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 15] cites [Psalm 25:14] "The secret (counsel) of the Lord is with those who revere him; and he makes his covenant known to them."

---

### [belatehem](/keys/BLTIHM) - בלטיהם
> with their enchantments, with their secret arts. [Exodus 8:7](http://biblehub.com/exodus/8-7.htm): *"And the Magicians [of Egypt] did so with their enchantments."* The secret of alchemy is employed for success in the great work. See [94](94).

> [Exodus 7:22](http://biblehub.com/exodus/7-22.htm): *"And the Magicians of Egypt did so with their enchantments: and Pharaoh's heart was hardened, neither did he hearken unto them; as the Lord had said."* see [89](89). The incarnate life veils the consciousness through the illusion of separation. see [883](883) (Greek).

---

### [malakah](/keys/MLAKH) - מלאכה
> deputyship, work (never servile). From מלאך "one sent; angel, messenger; prophet, seer."

> *"The secret has to do with deputyship, with some application of the secret in work, not servile, wherein he worker stands as the representative, or deputy of another... the extension of 96 is [4656](4656). The digits of this number add up to 21, the sum of the numbers from 1 to 6, which is the mystic number of the Sephirah Tiphareth, and so connects with the symbol of the sun, where of Tiphareth is the sphere. [21](21) is also the number of אהיה, the Kether name of God. Again, it is the number of הגיג, a noun describing a form of deep meditation, accompanied by murmuring. Thus we see that this treatment of the number also agrees with the other details we have been considering. Again, the digits of [4656](4656) give the number [720](720) when they are multiplied together. This number is [10](10) times [72](72). The number 72 is symbolic of the whole course of the sun through the year, because it is the number of the quinaries in the zodiac. It is also connected with the pentagram, because the points of a pentagram divine an enclosed circle into 5 arcs of 72 degrees. Multiplied by ten, it signifies the manifestation of the pentagram through the 10 Sephiroth, or the expression of the Shemhamphorash through the Tree of Life. That is to say, [720](720) is a symbol of a completed manifestation through the Sephirotic Tree. But more than this, 720 is twice 360, and as there [360](360) degrees in a circle, the number would be perfectly represented by two circles, each complete, tangent to each other. Note that these tangent circles make the figure 8 when their common diameter is a vertical line, and the lemniscate symbol of the Magician in the Tarot..."* (???)

> In Richardson's Monitor of Freemasonry (p. 43) As part of the Mark Mason's degree the candidate takes in each hand a small block of white Marble about 4 inches square and 6 inches long, weighing about 11 pounds each. Paul Case has this note: "Volume = 4x4x6 = 96 cubic inches = 12x8 = מלאכה [work](/keys/MLAKH)." see [56](56) (כול), and [600](600) (שש).

---

### [Lelahel](/keys/LLHAL) - ללהאל
> Godwin gives: Lelahel; angel of the 6th quinance (26°-30°) of Leo; angel by night of the 7 of Wands. This corresponds to the operation of Netzach, sphere of Venus in the archetypal plane of ideas. Davidson says his corresponding angel is Asentacer.

---

### [Elohin](/keys/ALHIN) - אלהין
> Creative Spirits; Builders. Chaldee of אלהים. see [86](86).

---

### [El Adonai](/keys/AL.ADNI) - אל אדני
> God the Lord.

---

### [Poi](/keys/PVI) - פוי
> 56th name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 2nd quinance (6°-10°) of Taurus. see [127](127), [1525](1525).

---

### [Tzaw](/keys/TzV) - צו
> order, command, precept. [Isaiah 28:10](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/28-10.htm): *"For precept must be upon precept, precept upon precept; line upon line, line upon line; here a little, and there a little; that they might go, and fall backwards, and be broken, and snared and taken."*

---

### [Hanial](/keys/HNIAL) - הניאל
> "Favor of God." Angle of Netzach (variant spelling, see [97](97)).

---

## Latin

---

### [occultum](/latin?word=occultum) (Lt)
> hidden. Part of an alchemical phrase in Secret Symbols (page 17): "Visit the interior of the earth, by rectifying you shall find the hidden stone." see [570](570) Latin.

---

### [tinctura](/latin?word=tinctura) (Lt)
> tincture. That which tinges or permeates the entire body, transforming its essential nature. see [193](193) Latin.

---

### English Gematria:

- [Solomon](/english?word=Solomon) *([Fama Intro, p.15](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n15/mode/2up))*

---

### See Also:

- [15](15)
- [6](6)
- Σ96 = [4656](4656)

