## 97 - Ninety-Seven
> (prime)

---

### [Haniel](/keys/HANIAL) - האניאל
> "Grace of God", Archangel of Netzach and is the aspect of the One Force active in the 7 of Cups (Netzach of Briah). The working of the desire nature in Netzach is the manifestation of the Divine Grace which has already prepared for us the good gifts we desire. see [101](101), [311](311), [246](246), [280](280), [314](314), [251](251).

---

### [Ben-Adam](/keys/BN-ADM) - בן־אדם
> Son of Man [Psalm 8:4](http://biblehub.com/psalms/8-4.htm): *"What is man, that thou art mindful of him? and the son of man, that thou visitest him?"*. Refers to man as the means whereby the Divine Grace becomes manifest through correct understanding of the desire nature (see [363](363)).

---

### [amon](/keys/AMVN) - אמון
> artificer, master-workman, architect, designer; faith. This corresponds to the 7 and the heptagram as symbols of skill developed through trial and error. To partake of the Divine Grace, we must gain conquest over the desire nature and balance with exactitude the 7 inner holy planets, thus preparing ourselves for Adeptship (see [91](91)).

---

### [aumawn](/keys/AVMN) - אומן
> craftsman, artisan, mechanic. also: אומן (omayn), trainer, educator; pedagogue; אומן (omawn) border-bed, straight line. Note that his word is metathesis of the proceding. The Mem (reversal) and Vav (intuition) have been transposed. Vav gives guidance as to ?here?. The result in both words is Nun. Also אומן day demon of 1st decanate of Gemini. This decanate is ruled by Mercury and suggest imbalance in self-consciousness, resulting in illiteracy, rigidness and dullness of perception-lack of attention and concentration. see [747](747). Written אומנים in [Proverbs 20:6](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/20-6.htm) and translated as "faithfulnesses" *"Many men are considered merciful; but a faithful man who can find?"*

---

### [ha-yahm ha-godel](/keys/HIM.HGDL) - הים הגדל
> the Great Sea. A name of Binah, sphere of understanding and intuition, source of grace and mother of the "son of man". see [52](52), [67](67).

---

### [zemahn](/keys/ZMN) - זמן
> appointed time, time; date; fate, luck; tense (gram); school term. *"I am he who establishes the time of the decree, who declareth the term of the days of Adam"* [Book of Tokens, Samekh] *"But to each man there is appointed a last day, and none knoweth the time save he who hath appointed it."* [Book of Tokens, Ayin]

---

### [chawtaph](/keys/ChTP) - חטף
> to catch, seize; to seize suddenly, rape; to do hurriedly. Action without preparation leads to failure.

---

### [taephach](/keys/TPCh) - טפח
> span, hand-breath; palm. [1 Kings 7:26](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/7-26.htm) *"And it [the molten sea or laver of purification] was an handbreath thick, and the brim thereof was wrought like the brim of a cup..."*

> [Exodus 25:25](http://biblehub.com/exodus/25-25.htm) *"And thou shalt make unto it [the table of shewbread] a border of an handbreadth round about, and thou shalt make a golden crown to the border there of round about."* also: טפח to strike, clap; to be damp, clap, slap; to moisten; טפח vetchling (bean plant).

---

### [mebeneh](/keys/MBNH) - מבנה
> structure, build, a building. see [57](57).

---

### [Eilon](/keys/AILVN) - אילון
> Allon, "The oak or the strong one", according to Inman. [Joshua 19:33](http://biblehub.com/joshua/19-33.htm) (The children of Naphtais) *"And their coast was from Heleph, from Allon to Zaananim..."*

---

### [Iqpha](/keys/IPVA) - 
> Joppa; port city of Palestine; "Beautiful" [Ezra 3:7](http://biblehub.com/ezra/3-7.htm): *"They gave money also to the Masons, and to the carpenters; and meat and drink, and oil, to them of Sidon, and to them of Tyre, to bring cedar trees from Lebanon to the sea of Joppa, according to the grant that they had of Cyrus, King of Persia."* Variant spelling. see 96. Related to Tiphareth. see 326, 1081.

> Richardson's Monitor of Freemasonry (P. 40) says this is the password of the Mark Mason's degree.

---

### [Mehitabel](/keys/MHITBAL) - 
> Wife of Hadar, a King of Edom This name is connected with alchemical silver, in Aesch Mezareph [VII, p.39]: *"And in [Genesis 36:39](http://biblehub.com/genesis/36-39.htm) (Baal-hanan son of Achbor died, then Hadar reigned; his [enclosed] city was Pau; his wife's name was Mehetabel, daughter of Matred, daughter of Mezahab."), it is called Mehatebel, as though it were me hathbula, by changing the order of the letters, i.e. the water of immersion, because the king is immersed in them to be cleansed. Or as though it were the el hatob, by a like change of letters; the water of the good, or living silver; for life and good have power, as death and evil have the same."* see [253](253).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Liber Mundi](/latin?word=Liber+Mundi) (Lt)
> Book of the World or Book of Life. see [314](314) Greek, [30](30), [42](42), [55](55) Latin, [106](106), [444](444), [264](264), [230](230).

> *"At this time [during the period of temporary celibacy in "Arabia"], one has unusual insight into the secret of nature, and the putting of this experience into an orderly, scientific, wellorganized form of statement is what is meant by the translation of Book M (Liber Mundi). Brother C.R.C. is said to have brought with him, because, even after the initiatory experience are over, the knowledge gained thereby is never lost. This knowledge includes grasp of the principles of occult healing and mathematics. It is translated from Arabic, the language of initiated perception, into Latin, the Language of science. What we learn from this Book of the World is intelligible, communicable (in large measure) and may be stated that it will appeal to the intelligence of others. Note that this work was done during his 16th year, referring to Key 16. A structure of true knowledge implies the overthrow of error."* [PFC: True and Invisible]

> The Liber Mundi, connected also with Book M, is liked to [Mem](/keys/M), [Key 12](12), the Hanged Man; the numbers of which when reversed are 21 or [Key 21](21), Saturn, Book T. see [314](314) (Greek), [30](30), [42](42), [55](55), [106](106) (Latin), [444](444), [264](264), [220](220), [366](366).

---

### [coelestis](/latin?word=coelestis) (Lt)
> celestial, i.e. of the heavens, heavenly. The sphere of the zodiac is Chokmah, seat of the Life-force Chaiah. The interior stars in the subtle bodies of man are focuses for the force of the microcosm. see [96](96), [193](193) Latin, [73](73), [23](23).

---

### [sapientiam](/latin?word=sapientiam) (Latin)
> wisdom. Part of a Latin phrase. see [166](166).

---

### See Also:

- [16](16)
- [7](7)
