## 98 - Ninety-Eight
> (2x7x7). Square on the diagonal of a face of a cube of 7 units.

---

### [chetz](/keys/ChTz) - חץ
> arrow; lighting; punishment; wound.

> - in [Lamentations 3:12](http://biblehub.com/lamentations/3-12.htm) *"He drew his bow, and set me a mark for the arrow."*
> - Also in [Habakkuk 3:11](http://biblehub.com/habakkuk/3-11.htm) *"Sun and Moon stood still in the heavens as the glint of your flying arrows, at the lighting of your flashing spear."*
> - In [Ezekiel 5:16](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/5-16.htm) *"When I shoot at you with my deadly and destructive arrows [i.e. Calamities] of famine, I will shoot to destroy you. I will bring more and more famine upon you and cut off your supply of food."*
> - And in [Job 34:6](http://biblehub.com/job/34-6.htm) *"Although I am right, I am considered a liar, although I am guiltless; his arrow inflicts an incurable wound."*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"חץ [Hetz](/keys/ChTz). Every idea of division, scission, gash, cut that which act from the exterior, as the adverbial relation חוץ expresses outside. The Arabic [word] signifies to stimulate; and [Arabic word] to keep stirring, to agitate. חץ that which divides by making irruption, passing without from within: an arrow, an obstacle; a stone coming from the sling; an axe, a dart: a division of troops; a quarrel, etc."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 354](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/354)
]

---

### [ehben ahdom](/keys/ABN.ADM) - אבן אדם
> red stone; "stone of Adam." see [53](53), [45](45).

---

### [kokabim](/keys/KVKBIM) - כוכבים
> The planets or wanderers. Esoterically connected with the 3 higher octave planets, Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto. Connected with "volatile" in some alchemical symbolism. see [48](48), [343](343).

---

### [mahabun](/keys/MAHBN) - מאהבן
> short form of מאסו הבנים [masu ha-bonim](/keys/MASV.HBNIM), (the stone) "which the builders refused." [Means: what! the builders]

---

### [maboin](/keys/MBVN) - מבון
> means, instructed, taught. מבון is the nearest approach I [PFC] have been able to discover in the Hebrew dictionary to the word, which in a certain initiation is said to be the substitute for another greater word which has been lost. Now we know that the lost word is יהוה, for is regained in a certain higher grade. This word is the Key to most of the mysteries, and its value is [26](26)... In Maboin, taking the Nun as [50](50), the sum of the letters values is 98 which reduces to [8](8). Thus by reduction, the word corresponds to מנשה, [manasseh](/keys/MVNShH) ([395](395)), forgetting, or making forget. ישוע, ([386](386)), [Jeshua](/keys/IShVO) -- God the Savior;  ([296](296)), [Zur](/keys/TzVR), צור, God, a rock; פורושא, [purusha](/keys/PVRVShA), ([593](593)), the I Am or onlooker;

---

### [Segellah](/keys/SGLH) - סגלה
> a treasure. [Exodus 19:5](biblehub.com/exodus/19-5.htm): *"if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my covenant, then ye shall be **a peculiar treasure** unto me above all people"*

> A peculiar treasure, or personal possession [1 Chronicles 29:3](http://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/29-3.htm): *"Moreover, in addition to all that I have provided for the holy house, I have a treasure of my own of gold and silver".* see [104](104). The root of this word is probably סג, [Seg](/keys/SG), "secret" name of Briah. see [63](63).

---

### [minhag](/keys/MNHG) - מנהג
> to drive (a chariot); custom, manner, conduct, usage. The noun menahig, "driver," is from the verb מנהג, [minhag](/keys/MNHG), "to drive" (as a chariot). Note that the study of the Tree of Life and its relationships is often called "The Work of the Chariot." The [13th Path](13) of Gimel, saykel menahig ha-achadoth [Driver of Unities]. Variant spelling, see [108](108).

---

### [Hu Elohim](/keys/HVA.ALHIM) - הוא אלהים
> He, the Creative Powers. This indicates the essential identity between Yekidah in Kether (He) and Neshamah in Binah (the Creative Powers) through the path of Beth ([Key 1](1), The Magician). this is the "treasure" which drives the soul to unity.

---

### [Pitdah](/keys/PTDH) - פטדה
> Topaz, according to Kosminsky; the second stone of the breastplate of the high priest, in [Exodus 28:17](http://biblehub.com/exodus/28-17.htm): *And thou shalt set in it settings of stones, even four rows of stones: the first row shall be a sardius, **a topaz,** and a carbuncle: this shall be the first row."* For the other stones, see [45](45), [702](702), [150](150), [345](345), [395](395), [370](370), [308](308), [84](84), [1210](1210), [350](350), [85](85).

> Isidore Kosminsky writes: *"The second stone of the breastplate is give as Pitdah, variously interpreted as a Topaz, peridot, yellowish-green serpentine, diamond and chrysolite. The Targums agree that a green stone is implied and some authorities seek to clear the mystery by advancing that the stone was of a yellowish-green. The Topaz of the ancients is not the Topaz of today, but is identified with the stone known to us as the chrysolite or Peridot. Traditionally the emerald is associated with the second sign of the Zodiac... The gem needed is therefor a green one, and this is traditionally the correct one for the Sionshor or Taurus in which Nogah or Venus delights and in which Labanah or the Moon exalts. The Emerald was sacred to the period this period of the year. This gem was well-known amongst ancient nations, especially those of Egypt and Ethiopia where the chief Emerald mines were... The tribe Simeon corresponding to the zodiacal Gemini was engraved on the second gem of the breastplate--although it has no connection with it... it should be understood that by Emerald is meant the precious Emeralds as we know it or its varieties Beryl and Aquamarine. It may be noted that the Topaz, a gem most generally favored as the second stone on the breastplate, is traditionally assigned to the opposite sing of the zodiac, Scorpio..."* [[The Magic and Science of Jewels and Stones, pp. 22-24](https://archive.org/stream/TheMagicAndScienceOfJewelsAndStones/kozminsky-i-magic-1922-RTL014043-LowRes#page/n45)]

> He continues: *"The Emerald is the beautiful green variety of the Beryl family, colored by Chromium... the whole beryl family is classified under the sign Taurus. their crystalline form is hexagonal (6-sided), and six is the traditional number of Venus, whose earth house or mansion in astrology is the heavenly Taurus... As eye stones the stones of Beryl family have always been held in high esteem, Pope John XXI affirming that a disease eye treated with an emerald became sound again. It was not claimed that the emerald would restore lost sight, but it was regarded as extremely potent in eye disease, injury or trouble of any kind. Sometimes it was sufficient, especially in the case of inflamed eyes, to bathe the eye in water in which emeralds had been steeped for 6 hours; at other times the stone was reduced to the finest powder, an extremely small quantity of which was placed in the eye at state intervals... The tradition that when a serpent fixed its eyes on an emerald it becomes blind is echoed from the Hebrew philosophy, and Ahmed Ben Abdaliziz in his 'Treatise on Jewels' has it that the lustre of Emeralds makes serpents blind... The symbolist will at once perceive the hidden parable: in astrology, serpents have been classed under the Scorpion of the Zodiac, and the Venusian Taurus in the zodiac is opposite to the Scorpion... it can easily be seen why the Emerald is the emblem of true happiness and the preserver of chastity, and why it was said to fracture if chastity were violated: To one taking vows of chastity and breaking them, the Emerald could never appear the same again-before his spiritual vision it would be broken and shattered. Leonarus says that the Emerald protected women in childbirth, and must old writers are impressive in warning men to wear one as a charm against spiritual and mental weakness... as an emblem of eternal spring, Iarchus advised that it an emerald set in a ring of gold be placed on the solar finger of the left hand when the sun entered Taurus, the wearer would attain his cherished aim and be enabled by the sweating of the stone to detect poisons.. the Romans greatly esteemed the Emerald as an eye stone and a natural specific for ophthalmia, holding that what healed an calmed the spiritual eye would heal and calm the natural eye. The Persians applied ashes of burnt Emeralds to ulcers with curative effect. They said that the Emerald brought mental tranquillity, cured unnatural thirst, stomach troubles, jaundice, liver troubles, obstructions, gravel, stricture, bodily pains and epilepsy. Alberus Magnus also recommends it as a cure for epileptic attacks. Mystics have always regarded that Emerald worth. It is spoken of by Cardanus as an ideal gem for divinatory purposes-no doubt because of its pure spiritual import. Aristotles writes that an Emerald hung from the neck or worn on the finger protects from the 'falling sickness'. The ancient writers held that all kinds of divination were helped by the Emerald, and when worn by the transaction of honest business it gave favor to the wearer... Paracelsus wrote that the Emerald was in sympathy with the metal copper-also recognized as the chief metal of Venus."* [[The Magic and Science of Jewels and Stones, pp. 139-140](https://archive.org/stream/TheMagicAndScienceOfJewelsAndStones/kozminsky-i-magic-1922-RTL014043-LowRes#page/n165)]

---

### [pachadu](/keys/PChDV) - פחדו
> his stones [Job 40:17](http://biblehub.com/job/40-17.htm). The Hebrew text translates this word "his thighs," a euphanisum for testicles. see [142](142), [453](453).

---

### [khasal](/keys/ChSL) - חסל
> to consume, eat, to finish off; to finish, end.

---

### [tzach](/keys/TzCh) - צח
> white, clear, sunny, warm, dry. [Ruach Tzach](/keys/RVCh.TzCh), רוח צח, dry wind. [Jeremiah 4:11](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/4-11.htm). Dazzling, bright, clear, glowing, brightness.

---

### [zemnah](/keys/ZMNA) - זמנא
> time, appointed time (Chaldean). Temporary dwelling. [Exodus 33:11](http://biblehub.com/exodus/33-11.htm): *"In the last day shall the demon be cast into a lake of fire; but to each man their is appointed a last day, and none knoweth the time save he who hath appointed it."* The "Demon" is the illusion of separateness. [Book of Token, Ayin]

> Godwin gives: "Temporary dwelling" in [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 15] and cites [Exodus 23:11](http://biblehub.com/exodus/23-11.htm): *"The Lord would speak to Moses face to face, as a man speaks with his friend. Then Moses would return to the camp, but his young aide Joshua son of Nun did not leave the tabernacle."* A medieval spelling of MChNh camp, army. see [391](391), [386](386), [106](106). The "temporary dwelling" is Beth, the house of personality.

---

### [hamaim, chamayim](/keys/ChMIM) - חמים
> warm, luke warm. The "new image" is manifested by the "gentile heat" of the alchemist.

---

### [yepecha, yawpecha](/keys/IPCh) - יפח
> breathing, puffing out (hebrew lexicon). This word and Vav as a prefix is used in [Genesis 2:7](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-7.htm): *"and breathed into his nostrils."* The breath of life is the consuming treasure. "Puffing" is connected with intonation of divine words of power.

---

### [haysidayo, haesidawyu](/keys/ChSIDIV) - חסידיו
> his saints [Psalm 97:10](http://biblehub.com/psalms/97-10.htm): *"He preserveth the soul of his saints."* see [82](82).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [mehn](/greek?word=mhn) (Gr) - μην
> a month.

---

### [Helene](/greek?word=elenh) (Gr) - Ἑλένη
> Helen.

---

### [heh akademeia](/greek?word=h+akadhmeia) (Gr) - η ακαδημεια
> The academy. A gymnasium in the suburbs of Athens, where Plato taught; Hence, the Platonic School were called Academics. The academy is connected with higher thought, which is a means for apprehending the Platonic vision of Helen.

---

### [nequaquam](/latin?word=nequaquam) (Lt)
> no-where. refers to the Rosicrucian saying "Nequaqam Vacuum," Nowhere a vacuum. a negative expression of the truth that all space is filled with the divine presence, which is no-thing in itself. see [61](61), [170](170), [72](72) Latin.

---

### English Gematria:

- [the mules](/english?word=the+mules). [Genesis 36:24](http://biblehub.com/genesis/36-24.htm): *"And these are the children of Zibeon; both Ajah, and Anah: this was that Anah that found the mules in the wilderness, as he fed the asses of Zibeon his father."*
- [Jerusalem](/english?word=Jerusalem) *([Fama p.4](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/4))*. see [586](586).

---

### See Also:

- [17](17)
- [8](8)
