## 100 - One Hundred
> (10x10)

---

### [Qoph](/keys/Q) - ק
> *"The bottom of the Qoph is a man calling 'Holy (קדוש) [Kodosh](/keys/QDVSh)', so that he can join himself to his Creator. The top line, sheltering and reaching down, is the holy One ... ק is one of the letters made by two marks. Heh is the other. The lower mark of the Qoph is man calling God. With the upper mark of the Qoph HE whispers very softly to see if you are really listening."* [The Book of Letters, Rabbi Kushner]

> *"The Will of God hovers above the soul in its source, and decrees upon it to descend, against its own initial will, into a physical body. the soul's mission below requires it to become totally involved in the process of rectification, clarification, of its body and "portion" in the world."* [The Alef-Beit, Rabbi Ginsburgh]

> *"The form of the letter Qoph can be considered as made from combination of a Vav and Kaph. This shows that man is linked to Divine law on both the physical and spiritual levels."* [Simple Stories From the Heart, Rabbi Kardia]

> Paul Case observes: "*The character of Qoph is said in old Qabalist books to be a combination of Kaph, which forms the upper part of the letter, and Vav, which is represented by the descending line. Since Kaph has the value [20](20), and Vav the value [6](6), this character is related to the number [26](26), that is, to the Divine name, יהוה. ...we have already established a correct ponderence between the letters Kaph and Qoph, based upon the fact that the letter-name Kaph adds up to [100](100), the value of Qoph. And now we see that the character for Kaph, slightly modified, is the principle ?? of the letter Qoph. Note too, that in Tarot Kaph is represented by the 10th key, which displays the name יהוה in Hebrew letters on the wheel, so that the name is also related occultly to both letters."* [Tarot Practice Course]

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"This character as consonant, belongs to the guttural sound. As symbolic image it represents a trenchant weapon, that which serves as instrument for man, to defend, to make an effort for him. It has already been remarked, that nearly all the words which hold to this consonant in the greater part of the idioms, designate force and constraint. It is, in the Hebraic tongue, the compressive and decisive sign; that of agglomerative or repressive force. It is the character Kaph, entirely materialized; the progression of the sign is as follows: Heh, vocal principle, sign of absolute life: Cheth, aspirate principle, sign of elementary existence: Gimel, guttural principle, organic sign: Kaph, same principle strengthened, sign of assimilative existence holding to forms alone: Qoph, same principle greatly strengthened, sign of mechanical, material existence giving the means of forms."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.438]

---

### [Letter name Kaph](/keys/KP) - כף
> grasping hand; rock. Grasp is always the result of a balance or equilibrium of ideas. see [986](986), [448](448), [194](194), [20](20).

> {Beginning of Text Missing}: *c) (1+2+4+8 [=15]) + (1+4+15+64[=85]) = 100. Note: These 4 numbers compose 1 and its double, and 4 and its double, which make 15, and of these 4 numbers also added together: 1, 4, 15, 64 which make 85. And the principle of doubling pervades all these numbers, containing that principle which is by fours and fives]. d) "It is composed of numbers taken separately which make 10 (1+2+3+4); and of four triangular numbers (1, 3, 6, 10) which make 20; and of four quadrangular numbers (1, 5, 12, 22) which make 40; and all these added together make 100." e) "it is composed of four cubes taken simply, beginning with the unit, and after giving 1, 2, 3, 4, their cubes 1, 8, 27, 64 make 100". f) "It is divided into 40 and 60, each of which is a very natural number."*

---

### [Khawtzab](/keys/ChTzB) - חצב
> to hew out, chisel or cleave.

---

### [kaylim, kelim](/keys/KLIM) - כלים
> vases, utensils; weapons. Forms are as vases into which the Life-power pours its essence. Every vessel (form) is an aspect of life. The Jupiter center is like a vessel that receives or holds the record of individuality from one incarnation to another. *"Vases, vessels, referring to the fact that each organism is like a vase containing the water of life; the comprehension of this fact being necessary to occult progress."* [Gematria of the Letter Names]. see [95](95) (Zebulon), [660](660).

---

### [madone, mawdohn](/keys/MDVN) - מדון
> effort, exertion. Also: contest, quarrel, length, height; extension. All semblance of effort and exertion is performed by the one actor. *"Implied in the symbol of the grasping hand."* [Gematria of the Letter Names] All other strife is the play of the light and darkness of God. see [750](750), [Psalm 80:6](http://biblehub.com/psalms/80-6.htm).

---

### [yawmim](/keys/IMIM) - ימים
> days, seas, times, a day. [Genesis 1:10](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-10.htm). Reference to the influence (Shefah) or abundance of water, as in the Bible *"They shall suck the abundance of the seas."* see [450](450).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"ימים seas.... That is to say aqueous immensity: for the word which designates seas, is only the word מים, waters preceeded by the sign of manifestation Yod. As the word מים itself, the following is the history of its formation. The root מה, מו or מי contains the idea of passive relation, of plastic and creative movement. ...The Hebrews... as well as the Chaldeans and Syrians, employed the verb מום to express the mutation of things, and their relative movement. The name which they gave for water, in general,... was rarely in the singular, and as if their sages had wished to show in the way the double movement which it contains, or that they know it inner composition, they gave it almost always the dual number מיים, double waters.*

> *"Yet, a very singular thing ought not to escape the archaeologist is that from the Chinese to the Celts, all peoples draw may draw from the word which, in the tongue designates water, the one which serves as indetermente pronounial relation. The Chinese say Choui, water and choui, who, what? The Hebrews מה or מי water and מה or מי who, what? The Latins Aqua, water and Quis Quoe quod, who what? The Teutons and Saxons, wasser, water, and was of wat, who, what? etc"* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp. 41-42]

> F.J. Mayers says: *"the name seas, Iamim, is exactly the same as the word of waters with y or ee prefixed, making the word mean manifested , or visible waters . This little point, in itself, is quite sufficient to take the ground from under the feet of anyone who ever thought that the word waters, with which we have made so much to do, referred to water in the ordinary literal meanings."* [The Unknown God, p. 42]

> Gaskell suggest that the sea is a symbol of the astral plane of the desires and passions. *"...and the supreme now directs [In Genesis 1:9, 10](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-9.htm), that the waters under the heaven, that is the astral matter shall be centralized and coordinated, so that preparation shall be made for physical matter (dry land) to appear. ([10](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-10.htm)) And the physical matter is named earth, which term also stands for the lower nature of the soul, -- the natural man, and the gathering together, of the waters signifies the formation of the astral 'sea' of desires. And all is pronounced 'good', that is, perfect in involution for purposes of forthcoming manifestation through evolution."* [Dictionary of all Scriptures and Myths, p. 661]

> The Zohar [I:33A] comments: *"And the gathering together of the waters called the seas. This is the upper reservoir of the waters where they are all collected and from which they all follow and issue forth. Rabbi Hiya said: The gathering place of the waters is the Zaddic (Righteous One), because it is written in connection with it, And God saw that is was good, and it is written elsewhere, in the words he called seas, because he takes all the streams and sources and rivers and he is the source of all; hence he is called waters . Hence it says: And God saw that it was good."*

> Paul Case says that the word is *"a double reference to the fact that what is occultly termed water is the basis of organic development which involves the sequence of time-cycles."* [Gematria of the Letter Names]

---

### [Mehey tabel](/keys/MChI.TBAL) - מחי טבאל
> Mitigation of one by another. *"All opposites are bound together by the grasp of Kaph so that nowhere in the universe is there any real want or failure."* [Book of Tokens]

---

### [Mehetabel](/keys/MChITBAL) - מחיטבאל
> Better by God. Name of the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab [Genesis 36:39](http://biblehub.com/genesis/36-39.htm). She was the wife of Hadar, a king of Edom, whose capital city was Pau. Hadar means "Magnificence, propelling, propulsive." Pau signifies "crying out" (as of a woman in Labor). Mezahab means: "Water of gold" or "golden waters."

> The Zohar interprets Hadar as the supreme benignity, because הדר, Hadar, may be written with a dot in Daleth, doubling that letter, so that the word is really הדדר, [213](213), the number of חסד עלאה דאל, [Chesed Auleah Da-El](/keys/ChSD.OLAH.DAL), the Supernal Mercy of El. The name of the city, Pau, is said to refer to the prayer of the man who is worthy of the Holy Spirit. His "crying out" is heard. [Meyhetabel](/keys/MChITBAL) means "Made better by El" [Zohar]. Thus she is the feminine working power corresponding to Chesed. Finally, the name Mezahab מיזהב, is made of 2 words, מי: refers to mercury while זהב is Gold. [Greater Holy Assembly 933- 996].

> *"The secret of overcoming the modifications of the mind by their opposite, a secret intimates by the fact that one side of this wheel ascends as the other descends, so that opposite and complementary motions are combined in the revolution."* [Gematria of the Letter Names]

---

### [loa](/keys/LO) - לע
> gullet, throat. [Proverbs 23:1-2](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/23-1.htm) (1) "When you sit to dine with a ruler, note well what is before you, ([2](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/23-2.htm)) and put a knife to your throat if you are given to gluttony."

> According to Fabre D'Olivet לע is a root not used in Hebrew: *"The Arabic [word] appears to express in general, covetous desire, consuming ardor. The root [Arabic word] which appears to be idiomatic and onomatopoetic in Arabic, denote the articulate sound emitted by the voice and modified by the tongue; thence the verb [Arabic word] which signifies to speak or to bark, according to whether it is a question of man or dog. the word [Arabic word] signifies literally, a speech, an idiom, etc."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 383] Recall that the throat is connected with Venus, desire and creative imagination.

---

### [ole, ovl](/keys/OL) - על
> Yoke, pole of wagon; obligation, dependence. In [Genesis 27:40](http://biblehub.com/genesis/27-40.htm): *"Thou shalt break off his yoke."* see [106](106), [652](652).

---

### [ol](/keys/OL) - על
> High, Most High, a title of Divinity. see [686](686).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"על. The material sign Ayin considered under its vocal relation being united to that of expansive movement, composes a root which characterizes, hieroglyphically and figuratively, primal matter, its extensive force, its vegetation, its development in space, its elementary energy; this same sign, considered as consonant changes the expresion of the root which it constitutes, to the point of making it represent only ideas of crime, fraud, perversity.*

> *"The Arabic [word] has lost nearly all the intellectual ideas characterized by the Hebraic root. In a restricted sense it signifies to give up to physical realization, to grow weak, to become effeminate, to be made sick, and the verb [Arabic word], the formation of seen in the plant.*

> *"על Material extent; its progression, its indefinite extension, expressed by the relations toward, by, for, on account of, notwithstanding, according to its aggregative power, its growth by juxtaposition, expressed by upon, over, above, along with, near, adjoining, about, overhead, beyond, etc.*

> *"על or עלל (intensive) that which grows, extends, rises, mounts; that which is high, eminent, superior; the aggregated superficial part of anything whatsoever; that which constitutes the form, the factor, the exterior appearance; the labor of things; an extension, a heap, etc."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 418]

---

### [N.N](/keys/N-N) - נ נ
> Frater N.N. in the Rosicrucian Fama who uncovered the brass plate and pulled out the large "nail" (Vav) which revealed the "door" (Daleth) to the tomb of Brother C.R.

---

### [I.O., I.A., G.V.](/keys/IO.IA.GV) - יע יא גו
> Sum of initials of the first 3 fraters called by C.R. in the Rosicrucian Allegory. see [312](312), [412](412).

> - G.V. Hebrew גו, [gav](/keys/GV), meaning 'middle' or 'center'.
> - I.A. is a transposition of the Hebrew אי, [ahyee](/keys/AI), meaning "where? how?"" I.A. is also the Notariqon or Qabalistic abbreviation for the phrase יהי אור, [yehi aur](/keys/IHI.AVR), meaning 'Let there be light.'
> - I.O. adding to 80, the number of the letter Peh (the mouth), and the number of Yesod (Foundation or Basis), the name of the ninth Sephirah.

> The values of these various initals total 100, which is the number of כלים, [kaleem](/keys/KLIM), meaning 'vases'; מדון, [madown](/keys/MDVN), signifying 'effort' or 'extension'; כף, [kaph](/keys/KP), 'a grasping hand', the name of the letter assigned to [Key 10](10) in Tarot, which Key is a symbolic representation of the actual constitution of the Invisible Order; and finally, the single Hebrew letter ק, or [Qoph](/keys/Q), which represents the Corporeal Intelligence, symbolized by the [eighteenth Key](18) of Tarot.

> Moreover, 100 is a square of 10 - 4 brethren laid the foundation of the fraternity, the basis of which is the powers of the 10 Sephiroth (10x10). *"Into concentraton, decision, expression (the three Brethren) the God-self (Brother C.R.) pours its power and Wisdom, as water is poured into vases (כלים). Through their activity and effort, the lights of instruction is extended or radiated (מדון). By them was established the constitution of the order, in accordance with the comprehension (Kaph) of the principle of concentric circles, illustrated in Tarot by the three-fold subdivision of the wheel of fortune and Key 10. The field of the operation is the Corporeal Intelligence (Qoph) of Humanity. In conformation of this, we find the Fama saying that the only profession of the Brethren was to heal the sick... Accomplished by spiritual means, through establishment in human consciousness of the perfect pattern of the Heavenly Man, which pattern is presented as a diagram by the Qabalistic the Tree of Life."* [True and Invisible (WeiserBooks) p. 91-92]

---

### [pak](/keys/PK) - פך
> "flask", bottle for holding the anointing oil. [1 Samuel 10:1](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/10-1.htm): *"Then Samuel took a flask of oil and poured in on Saul's head and kissed him, saying has not the Lord anointed you leader over his inheritance?"* see [580](580).

> Fabre D'Olivet writes: *"פך. Every distillation which comes from vapor suddenly condensed: a drop of water, metaphorically, a lens, the Arabic [word] signifies literally to be dissolved."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 426]

---

### [maws](/keys/MS) - מס
> a suffering, discouraged one; pining, afflicted one. [Job 6:14](http://biblehub.com/job/6-14.htm) *"A despairing man should have the devotion of his friends, even though he forsakes the fear of the Almighty."*

> also: מס mas, tribute, tax. [Esther 10:1](http://biblehub.com/esther/10-1.htm): *"King Xerxes imposed tribute throughout the empire, to its distant shores."*

> Fabre D'Olivet: *"מס. Every dissolution, literally as well as figuratively: that which enervates, which takes away from physical and moral strength. The Arabic [word] characterizes the state of that which is touched, that which is contiguous. By [Arabic word], is understood to suck; by [Arabic word] to be fatigued, to lose ones strength, to be enervated."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 391- 392]

---

### [Tzi](/keys/TzI) - צי
> Dryness, arid place, desert, wild beast, desert dweller. [Isaiah 13:21](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/13-21.htm): *"But desert creatures will lie there [in Babylon], jackals will fill her houses, there the owls dwell, and there the wild goats will leap about."* Also: ship, boat.

> [Isaiah 33:21](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/33-21.htm): *"There [in Zion] the Lord will be our Mighty One. It will be like a place of broad rivers and streams. No galley with oars will ride them, no mighty ship will sail them."* Fabre D'Olivet says this root resembles OA and OH, but develops greater intensity.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Justitia](/latin?word=Justitia) (Lt)
> Justice. Associated with Jupiter.

---

### [Liber Domini](/latin?word=Liber+Domini) (Lt)
> The Book of the Lord. The same as the akashic record. Also called "The Book of Consciences, recorded in the Astral Light." It is furthermore, the "one book" of the Rosicrucians. The Jupiter Center in the human body is each human being's personal copy of the Liber Domini. From it may be extracted knowledge of the inner secrets of creation. The unwritten Qabalah.

---

### [signatura](/latin?word=signatura) (Lt)
> signatures. Refers to what is written in the Book of the Lord. By reawakening the inner centers, access to this past history enables one to project into a better, more awakened, life pattern and to establish Justice. These are the characters which are inscribed on the mechanism of the world and repeated, as the Fama says. "Throughout the mutations of Empires." These characters written on the world-machine constitute the "one, only book" from which may be learned all that has been, is now, or will be learned from all other books."

---

### [trygano](/latin?word=trygano) (Lt)
> triangle. Spelling employed in the Fama. The triangle is, especially when equilateral, a symbol of Justice, and of the principles employed in adjustment. see [81](81), [237](237) (Latin).

---

### [practicus](/latin?word=practicus) (Lt)
> One who practices. Grade attributed to Hod. Knowledge and seed-ideas received in study and meditation are verified by actual processes of careful observation. One becomes directly aware of the truth that all events, all objects, all situations are operations of a single identity, a single power. see [85](85), [193](193), [103](103), [142](142).

---

### [Anima Soulis](/latin?word=Anima+Soulis) (Lt)
> Soul of the Sun; Soul of Gold. The truth verified by the practicus. The foundation of all occult practice is the truth that the animating principle of the Sun is identical with the One Reality designated as Deus Jehova.

---

### [Deus Jehova](/latin?word=Deus+Jehova) (Lt)
> God Jehovah (IHVH). This truth is summarized by the Tetragrammaton.

---

### [machina mundi](/latin?word=machina+mundi) (Lt)
> machine of the world. Knowledge of the cycles portrayed by the letter Kaph gives the observer a vision of the "machinery of the universe" animating by the vital soul (Yesod), the image-making power of God.

---

### See Also:

- [1](1)