## 101 - One Hundred One
> (prime)

---

### [wayhi-ken](/keys/VIHI-KN) - ויהי כן
> and it was so [Genesis 1:9,11](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=genesis+1%3A9%2C11&version=AKJV;WLC): *"And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place, and let the dry land appear: and it was so.... And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is in itself, upon the earth: and it was so."*

---

### [belahatehem](/keys/BLHTIHM) - בלהטיהם
> By their secret arts, By their enchantments. [Exodus 7:11](http://biblehub.com/exodus/7-11.htm): *"Then Pharaoh also called the wise men and the sorcerers: now the Magicians of Egypt, they also did in like manner with their enchantments."* see [661](661), [96](96), [94](94), [99](99).

> From להט flame, magic. see [44](44)

---

### [tzivvah, zivvawh](/keys/TzVH) - צוה
> to order, command, give or lay a charge; to appoint, ordain. also: to set up, to establish. [Psalm 133:3](http://biblehub.com/psalms/133-3.htm): *"As the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descended upon the mountain of Zion: For there the Lord commanded the blessing, even life for evermore."*

> According to Pernety [Great Art, p. 183] This is one of the alchemical names for the root of art and quicksilver of the sages. With different vowel points: to be commanded, be ordered.

---

### [Michael](/keys/MIKAL) - מיכאל
> Like unto God, House of God, Power of God. The Angel associated with Tiphareth and of the Sun, of fire and of the South. Pictured as the Holy Guardian Angel on [Key 14](14).

---

### [melookah, melukawh](/keys/MLVKH) - מלוכה
> kingship, kingdom, state; "A virgin princess." Figuratively Ecclesia (The assembly of the gathered together). see [91](91), [294](294) (Greek).

---

### [ehben gedulah](/keys/ABN.GDVLH) - אבן גדולה
> a great stone. [Joshua 24:26](http://biblehub.com/joshua/.htm); [1 Samuel 14:33](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/14-33.htm) see [48](48), [53](53).

---

### [ha-ehben ha-Awzel](/keys/HABN.HAZL) - האבן האזל
> "The stone of Ezel (of departure)." [1 Samuel 20:19](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/20-19.htm): *"And when thou [David] hast stayed three days, then thou shalt go down quickly, and come to the place where thou didst hide thyself when the business was in hand, and shalt remain by the stone Ezel."* The stone of departure is the consciousness which departs from separation.

---

### [awsam](/keys/ASM) - אסם
> a granary or storehouse. Also אסם, [Osem](/keys/ASM), a rich harvest. The great stone is the harvest and storehouse of "secret arts". (see [661](661).

---

### [yawtzaw](/keys/ITzA) - יצא
> to go forth; to finish. Those in darkness go forth to finish the great work of kingship, i.e. the rule of the higher self in Tiphareth.

---

### [nima](/keys/NIMA) - נימא
> According to Mathers, in [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 16] A gut, gut-string. This word does not occur in scripture or in the Hebrew Lexicon.

> Fabre D'Olivet writes of the first two letters: *"NI ni Root analogous to the roots NA [youth, newness), NH [fresh, young, recent) and NV whose expression it manifest. The Arabic [word] indicates the state of that which is raw." Of the second two letters he says: "MA That which tends to the aggrandizement of its being, to its entire development; that which serves as instrument of generative power and manifest it exteriorly. The Arabic [word] present in its original sense the same ideas as the Hebraic root; but this root has acquired in Arabic a greater number of developments than it has in Hebrew; this is why it demands in both idioms all the attention of those who which to go back to the essence of language. MA characterizes in general, passive matter, the thing of which, with which, and by means of which, all is made. It is in particular, in the Arabic idiom, Water; anything whatsoever, all or nothing, according to the manner in which it is considered. This important root, considered as pronominal relation designates the possibility of all things and is represented by the analogues what and which; conceived on the contrary, as adverbial relation, it is employed in Arabic to express the absence of every determined objects and is rendered by the analogues not, no. As a verb, the root [Arabic word] signifies in general to go everywhere, to extend everywhere, to fill space, etc."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 400, 401, 385-386]

> These meanings apply to the gut-string, which is the raw material from which music is produced on the strings of a violin; similarly in the preparation of the aspirant; it is the raw material of experience which produces the heights of spiritual illumination.

---

### [Jah Elohim](/keys/IH.ALHIM) - יה אלהים
> Divine name of Daath.

---

### [Mumiah](/keys/MVMIH)
> angel of the 4 of cups (Chesed of Briah). His activity is figured by omega, which designates the end of all things.

> Also associated with the fifth quinance of Cancer. According to Davidson, Mumiah is an angel who controls the science of physics and medicine and is in charge of health and longevity. his corresponding angel is ATEMBUI. see 101, 646.

> 72nd Shemhamphorash. [Psalm 116:7](http://biblehub.com/psalms/116-7.htm): *"Return unto thy rest, O my soul; for the Lord hath dealt bountifully with thee (Convertere anima mea in requiem tuam: quia Dominus beneficit tibi)."* ...A divine talisman should be prepared under favorable influences with the name of the spirit on the reverse side. Protects in mysterious operations, brings success in all things. Governs chemistry, physics and medicine. Influences health and longevity. *[The Seventy-Two Angels of the Shemhamphorash - Burkle]*

---

### [hamon](/keys/HMVN) - המון
> crowd, multitude; abundance; noise, roar; tumult, confusion.

---

### [Nena](/keys/NNA) - ננא
> 53rd name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 5th quinance (21°-25°) of Aries. see [132](132), [1525](1525).

> [Beginning of text missing, assuming that this belongs to ננא] For success in all things, and brings all experience to completion. Rules chemistry, physics and medicine. Influences to health and long life. Persons born: Distinguished in medicine; becomes famous by his marvelous cures, unveils many secret of nature which promote the happiness of the children of earth, and consecrates his powers and his services to solace the poor and the sick. see [965](965), [1525](1525); [646](646), [96](96), [86](86).

---

### [Maleaki](/keys/MLAKI) - מלאכי
> Malachi, "my messenger", the name of the last book of the prophets in the Bible, one of the Later Prophets. [Malachi 1:1](http://biblehub.com/malachi/1-1.htm) *"An oracle: the word of the Lord to Israel through Malachi."* see [90](90).

---

### [qea](/keys/QA) - קא
> "vomit" [Proverbs 26:11](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/26-11.htm): *"As a dog returns to its vomit, so a fool repeats his folly."*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"קא CA, KA, or QUA. This is the analogous root of קו which characterizes the expression of the sign. As onomatopoeic root it is convulsive and violent efforts; to spew out, to vomit forth."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 438](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/438/mode/2up)]

---

### [Alo](/keys/ALO) - אלע
> swallowed, destroyed, according to Mathers in Sepher Sephiroth, p. 15]. This word does not occur in scripture or in the Hebrew Lexicon. Suggest death Nun swallowed up in victory (Netzach, Venus).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [heh agapeh](/greek?word=h+agaPh) (Gk) - η ἀγάπη
> The brotherly love, charity. see [93](93).

---

### [forma pater](/latin?word=forma+pater) (Lt)
> from the father. We find this Latin term in plate 46 of The Secret Symbols, where the words are shown in connection with a circle containing a solar symbol, and having the additional inscription Sperma Masculls Mundi, "Masculine seed of the world." Its number is [216](216), that of Lapis Philosophorum, Philosopher's Stone, and of Sion Philosophorum, "Zion of the Philosophers." Note that Lapis and Sion have the same numerical values, [51](51). Here is a direct connection between the stone and Zion, and Zion is the occult designation of the part of the human brain we call adytum.

---

### [catholicus](/latin?word=catholicus) (Lt)
> universal, catholic. Part of an inscription in [Secret Symbols, p. 25] "The water of the philosophers is universal." see [36](36), [165](165), [366](366) (Latin).

---

### [corporis](/latin?word=corporis) (Latin)
> of the body. Represented the things of the physical plane, or the embodiment of spirit in the Kingdom of flesh. Part of the phrase. see [145](145).

---

### [optimus](/latin?word=optimus) (Latin)
> incomparably good; the best. Part of the phrase referring to God. see [234](234).

---

### [compendium](/latin?word=compendium) (Latin)
> a condensed summary. Part of a Latin phrase inscribed in the vault of C.R. see [832](832).

---

### [Mater Jesu](/latin?word=Mater+Jesu) (Lt)
> Mother of Jesus. see [51](51) (Latin).

---

### See Also:

- [11](11)
- [2](2)
