## 103 - One Hundred Three
> (prime)

---

### [Hu (or Hoa) ha-Elohim](/keys/HVA.HALHIM) - הוא האלהים
> *"He (Elohim) is God,"* [Deuteronomy 4:39](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/4-39.htm). Hu designates Kether, the Indivisible Self, Yekhidah (And also IHVH as the "Ancient of days") [I.R.Q. 1058]. Ha-Elohim is a special designation for Binah, relates also to Kether. see [91](91). The absolute unity of what appears to be manifold is curiously veiled Elohim is a plural noun, meaning "Creative Powers." see [91](91), [203](203), [663](663).

---

### [Ehben ha-Adam](/keys/ABN.HADM) - אבן האדם
> "the Stone of Adam". The Stone of Adam is a verbal symbol for the mystical union of the Father, Chokmah, with the Son, Tiphareth, in Adam, the sixth Sephirah. This is represented in [Key 17](17) by the great star surrounded by 7 smaller stars.

---

### [ha-kokabim](/keys/HKVKBIM) - הכוכבים
> the stars; (Hebrew name for [Key 17](17)). Kokab, Mercury is the planet which directs the activity of meditation.

> [Genesis 1:16](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-16.htm): *"And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night: he made **the stars** also."*

---

### [bonaim](/keys/BNAIM) - בנאים
> builders, masons. A name used by the Essenes, and adopted also by us as part of our official title. True builders are those who share the one secret doctrine which is practical and has much to do with the occult doctrine of the stars. see [220](220).

---

### [abnim](/keys/ABNIM) - אבנים
> stones. Plural of ehben. Same letters as Bonaim, builders. see [53](53).

---

### [nebawim](/keys/NBAIM) - נבאים
> prophets. [Jeremiah 23:21](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/23-21.htm): *"I did not send these prophets, yet they have run with their message; I did not speak to them, yet they have prophesied."*

---

### [moganiy](/keys/MGNI) - מגני
> my shield. [Psalm 119:114](http://biblehub.com/psalms/119-114.htm): *"Thou art my hiding place and my shield I hope in thy word."* Each verse begins with the Letter Samekh in this passage.

---

### [gawnan](/keys/GNN) - גנן
> gawnan, to hedge about, protect, shield, to cover over, surround, defend. Behind the Qabalah is a deep science of the stars, which gives more than adequate protection from every danger. The "Building" is the secret place of the most high. It is called the "adytum" and is within the brain of the illuminated adept.

---

### [Megiddon](/keys/MGDVN) - מגדון
> rendezvous. The place of the battle of Armageddon in the Apocalypse. We must come to this place of rendezvous, where the peace of illumination during quiet meditation is experience, after the storm and conflict of early awakening have passed. Rendezvous means "render yourself." Its roots is in "surrender." One in meditation surrenders to the indwelling Shekinah, who is the "daughter of the seven." He makes his appointment, and to her faithful lover she unveils. see [222](222), [958](958), [274](274) (Greek), [753](753), [Zechariah 12:11](http://biblehub.com/zechariah/12-11.htm).

---

### [gawl](/keys/GOL) - געל
> to abhor, loathe. also געל loathing, abhorrence.

---

### [yetzig](/keys/ITzG) - יצג
> to stand, setup, to set; to present, introduce.

---

### [mawzon](/keys/MZVN) - מזון
> food. [Genesis 45:23](http://biblehub.com/genesis/45-23.htm) and [Daniel 4:9](http://biblehub.com/daniel/4-9.htm).

---

### [menekhaw](/keys/MNChH) - מנחה
> gift, present; tribute; offering, meal-offering; after-noon prayer, afternoon.

---

### [Abimelek](/keys/ABIMLK) - אבימלך
> "Father of the King"; A king of the Philistines.

---

### [ebawq](/keys/ABQ) - אבק
> to wrestle, grapple with; dust, powder. Also אבק, dust, powder (gun-powder; particle; shade of).

---

## Latin/Greek:

---

### [monoceros](/latin?word=monoceros) (Lt)
> Unicorn.

---

### [vehiculum](/latin?word=vehiculum) (Lt)
> car, chariot. Name given by the Pythagoreans to the number 7. The triangle symbolizes the higher triad, and the square stands for the lower tetrad, in the occult constitution of man. The figure [triangle on top of square] is the basis of the composition of a charioteer and his car, in [Key 7](7). see [2](2).

---

### [Sulphur](/latin?word=Sulphur) (Lt)
> The second alchemical principle, corresponding to self-consciousness. Depicted in [Key 4](4), the Emperor. see [28](28), [109](109).

---

### [balneum mariae](/latin?word=balneum+mariae) (Lt)
> bath of the sea. An alchemical term. *"The two [spirit and body] must be united by a gentle and continuous fire, affording the same degree of warmth as that with which a hen hatches her eggs. It must then be placed in a St. Mary's Bath, which is neither too warm nor too cold."* [[Hermetic Museum, I. p. 183](https://archive.org/stream/b24927363_0001#page/183)]

---

### [Janua Artis](/latin?word=Janua+Artis) (Lt)
> Door of the Art, an alchemical term.

---

### [fons mundi](/latin?word=fons+mundi) (Lt)
> fountain of the world, an alchemical term.

---

### [subjectum](/latin?word=subjectum) (Lt)
> subject, one placed under [test and trial], alchemically speaking.

---

### [rota mundi](/latin?word=rota+mundi) (Lt)
Wheel of the World. See [Key 10](10).

---

### [in recessu](/latin?word=in+recessu) (Lt)
[in](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=in) [recessu](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=recessu): "in retreat".

> ([Fama Intro p.19](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n19)): *"it shall here sufficiently appear by our [Confession](/english?word=Confession), that there is more [in recessu](/latin?word=in+recessu) then may be imagined"*

---

### English Gematria:

- [Predicament](/english?word=Predicament) *([Fama Intro p.14](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n14))*

---

### See Also:
- [4](4)
