## 104 - One Hundred Four
> 8x13. Length of 2 diameters of a circle with a radius of 26, forming a cross. Total axes of symmetry of invisible curves of a 3x3x3 cube. Diagonal of rectangle of 40x96. *[The Gematria Notebooks of Paul Foster Case]*

### [Tzaddi](/keys/TzDI) - צדי
> Letter-name Tzaddi. "Fish-hook." [28th Path](28) of Wisdom. Associated with meditation, whereby the mind is set in order. Meditation reveals principles which are operative forever (לעד). By meditation we reverse our errors, and correct our actions, thus the work of meditation is implied by the injunction "repent ye", נחמו.  see [90](90), [477](477). *[Gematria PFC]*

Reading the letters, we understand that the act of meditation impregnates subconsciousness with the Law of superconsciousness, and that we may read this law, written upon Nature itself. Virgo is a virgin, and the Hermit, who has carefully avoided impregnating subconsciousness by interfering in his environment, can now read the Law from "Book M."


### [Nahemo](/keys/NChMV) - נחמו
> repent, comfort ye. [Isaiah 40:1](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/40-1.htm). The Hebrew equivalent of a Greek noun "repent ye." The root meaning is: reversal of mind, change mind; New Mind. This implies recognition of some principle of order violated by the action of which one repents. By restoring order, or complying with it, one secures satisfaction and comfort. Also: nihum. consolation, "comfort". [Isaiah 57:18](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/57-18.htm): *"I have seen her ways [i.e. Jerusalem], and I have healed her and have comforted her, and I have give comfort to her and to her mourners."*

> also: נחום, [nahum](/keys/NChVM); one of the minor prophets. [Nahum 1:1](http://biblehub.com/nahum/1-1.htm): *"The wound of Ninevah, which is in the book of the visions of Nahum the Alkoshite."*

> Of his prophesy it is said: *"The striking peculiarity of Nahum's thought is its fixed gaze on the enemies of God's chosen people. The prophet evidently has no fear for the people themselves. At all events, he alludes neither to their sin, nor to any impending wrath to be visited upon them. Presumably, the destruction of Assyria meant to him the deliverance of Israel from a source of distress and a menacing danger."* [Standard Bible Dictionary, p. 604]

### [Sodom](/keys/SDM) - סדם
> The Biblical city which was destroyed by God because of its perversity. Means: "burning or conflagration". Samekh added to דם, [blood](/keys/DM). [Genesis 18:26](http://biblehub.com/genesis/18-26.htm): *"And the Lord said, if I find in Sodom fifty righteous men within the City, then I will spare all the place for their sake."*

> Note 50 = [Nun](/keys/N), the "fish," which is hooked by Tzaddi. It also represents transformation. In alchemy, it represents fire. *"Meditation burns out the old way of thinking and doing even as the fire from heaven destroyed Sodom."* [Gematria of the letter-names] see [44](44), [315](315), [664](664), [385](385).

### [solchah](/keys/SVLCh) - סולח
> giving up, presenting, remitting. *"...meditation is successful to the degree that one surrenders himself utterly to the influx of the higher consciousness, presents his whole personality as a living sacrifice, and rids himself of all sense of being anything other than a steward of what the world counts as possessions, mental and physical."* [Gematria of the Letternames]

### [lah-ad](/keys/LOD) - לעד
> Lamed is a preposition meaning: for, but also means: to into; at, for, with. The meaning in this case is "forever." עד means: perpetuity; booty. Also witness, testimony, evidence. Lahad also means: put in order. see [5](5), [14](14), [74](74).

### [Ab Hamon](/keys/AB.HMVN) - אב המון
> Father of the multitude or Mob. Unregulated meditation. *"The initial efforts to control by one-pointed concentration seems to excite the mind to unwanted activity. As we attempt to concentrate the mind, the more we seen to stir up mental images, or a mob of images."* [Gematria of the Letternames]

### [medin, midian](/keys/MDIN) - מדין
> quarrel, dispute. According to Inman, is probably derived from MI, water, and DN, Dan, the Judge connected with alchemical putrefaction (Scorpio). *"At first between the old habits of thought and the new one [of meditation], there is stirred up considerable dispute. The old ways fight for their lives and there is no peace."* [Gematria of the Letter-Names] see [133](133), [336](336), [754](754).

### [segolah](/keys/SGVLH) - סגולה
> personal belongings. *"The intensity [of thought in meditation] is directed particularly on the old habits of thought of personal separateness implied in the word SGVNH, possessions or personal belongings; and our thoughts are continually diverted by being related to possessions. This is perhaps the primary reason why people who wish to adopt the contemplative life find it advantageous to live in voluntary poverty. Possessing little or nothing, they are no so easily diverted from their meditations."* [Gematria of the Letter-names] see [98](98).

### [ve-yahpakh](/keys/VIPCh) - ויפח
> *"and breathed (into his nostrils)."* [Genesis 2:7](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-7.htm). also IPCh "breathing, puffing out." see [98](98).

### [dakh](/keys/DQ) - דק
> fine, slender, lean, see [510](510).

### [Ehben](/keys/ABN) + [lapis](/latin?word=lapis) - ([53](53) + [51](51))
> This combination of the Hebrew and Latin words for Stone occurs often in secret writings of the western tradition. see [51](51), [53](53), [754](754).

## Greek/Latin:

### [Lux Mundi](/latin?word=Lux+Mundi) (Lt)
> Light of the World. The opening of the 3rd eye brings illumination the radiance around the hanged man's head in [Key 12](12). *[Gematria PFC]*

### [Mons Sion](/latin?word=Mons+Sion) (Lt)
> Mount Zion. Signifies the center of the brain which is aroused by meditation *[Gematria PFC]*

### [Ars Notaria](/latin?word=ars+notaria) (Lt)
> Universal science. The art of knowing. The art of reading the signs and characters which, says one of the Rosicrucian manifestoes *"God hath inscribed upon the mechanism of the world, and which he repeats through the mutations of Empires."* These signs may be discerned in every kingdom of nature. to have the Arts Notaria is to be able to read what Rosicrucian texts call "Book M." see [430](430), [510](510). *[Gematria PFC]*

> To have the Ars Notaria is to be able to read in what the Rosicrucian texts call "Book M." In Hebrew this would be "Sepher Mem," or and the numeration of this is [430](430), equivalent to Mesaperiym, the verb "declare," used in the 19th Psalm, which says: "The heavens declare the glory of God."

### [Terra Damnata](/latin?word=Terra+Damnata) (Lt)
> Reprobate earth. Refers to the matter of the alchemical work in its unpurified, unsublimated condition. It is not itself changed by the Great Work, being always Lux Mundi, though hidden by veils which the work dispels *[Gematria PFC]*

### [Heirophant](/latin?word=Heirophant) (Lt)
> Speculative -- not listed by Paul Case. One who expounds sacred things; an initiatory priest. From Greek ἱεροφάντης. Often specifically the chief priest of the Eleusinain mysteries. He was always one of the Eumolpides (sweet-singing, singing well), a family of priestly singers, 9 of whom were rulers of religious and civic affairs.

### [Mater Ecclesia](/latin?word=Mater+Ecclesia) (Lt)
> Mother church (Binah). It is symbolized by the kneeling woman of [Key 17](17). The interior church (communion of saints) is composed of persons who, by meditation, have reversed the errors of ordinary human thought. (In early stages of this reversal, they are seldom aware of that others are having similar experiences. As they progress, they not only sees some of their fellow travelers on the path of return, but they also enter into an interior communication with persons who may be living in distant lands.) It is identical with the True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order.

### See Also:

- [5](5)
