## 105 - One Hundred Five
> (5x7x3). 14 = 105. 1/24 of a "week of times (2520 years).

> "End of differentializing" and "the hypercosmic perfected" (the
number key-Carrington). Earth of Netzach.

### [haphak](/keys/HPK)
> to turn, to change, to transform, to overthrow; to
turn into; to prevent; subvert (see 585). Tracing a pentagram is
an affirmation of the operator's power to divert the normal
course of energy to predetermined channels, thus transforming
magically the appearance surrounding him, and over-throwing
adverse condition (HPK] by realizing the world of form is in a
state of flux. The power which takes form as objects constituting
the environment is identical with an inner power which is the
original creative force of the One Self.

### [pakah](/keys/PKH)
> to flow, to run, to pour forth; to ooze, drop. With
different vowel points: to make sober, sober down.

### [tziyah](/keys/TzIH)
> to glow, to burn, to glitter. From this word is
derived the place-name Zion (see 156). The actual force employed
in magical operations, the glowing, scintillating, fiery energy
is concentrated in Zion and represented by TzIH.

### [Tzaiah](/keys/TzIH)
> dryness, aridity; wasteland, desert. Corresponds
to sandy, desert earth; one of the 7 earths in the diagram of the
Four Seas. Earth of Netzach. see 291, 50, 14, 365, 302, 432, 337.

### [yawlah, yawkawh](/keys/OLH)
> to go up, ascend, mount; to come up; to
depart, withdraw, retreat; to rise, appear; to spring up, grow,
shoot forth, to surprise, excel, be superior to; to be reckoned,
be considered, counted in; to go up (on the altar), be
sacrificed; to be void, be neutralized. [Exodus 19:3] "And Moses
went up unto Al-Halhim, and IHVH called unto him out of the
mountain." also: OLH, covering, protection. see 512; 456, 561,
702.

### [adaq](/keys/ADQ)
> to adhere, cohere [Sepher Yetzirah 6:8]. "...God, the
faithful king, rules over all from his holy habitation to all
eternity. He is one above three, three are above seven, seven
above twelve, and all are linked (cohered) together." also: ADQ
(ehbeq) dropper; brace, ADQ (ahdahq). spray bottle (for perfume).

### [ehdeq, ahdahq](/keys/ADQ)
> dropper, spray bottle (for perfume), brace.

### [massah](/keys/MSH)
> trial, test, temptation; trouble, despair. Also:
essay, thesis. The test of aspiration is perseverance through
trouble and despair, and overcoming adversity.

### [naymawh](/keys/NIMH)
> thread, hair; (gut) string. Suggest the sutratma,
or thread-soul, which provides continuity in all incarnations.

### [Jehoiada](/keys/IHVIDO)
> "Jehovah knows", Old Testament name [2 Samuel
23:20]

## Latin/Greek

### [Mea victoria](Mea+victoria) (Lt)
> my victory; part of the phrase mea victoria in
cruce rosea, my victory is in the rosy-cross. In [Secret Symbols,
p. 35] see 224, 88 (Latin).

### [genus homo](genus+homo) (Lt)
> human species. The point of departure from homo
spiritualis (Spiritual Man). see 184.

### [Ponticus](Ponticus) (Lt)
> Astringent, sour, binding, contracting. Connected
with the "Catholic, pontic water," the "gold" of the sages. These
are adjectives Jacob Boehme applies to the first 3 principles
i.e. astringency-salt (the other 2 are: compunction-Sulphur,
rotation-Mercury. These further correspond to: Ain-Mercury-
Kether, Ain Soph-sulphur-Chokmah; Ain Soph Aur-Salt-Binah.