## 106 - One Hundred Six
> (2x53). Number of years of the life of brother C.R. (5x5 + 9x9).

---

### [Letter name Nun](/keys/NVN) - נון
> fish. as a verb: to grow, sprout or multiply. As a proper name the father of Joshua (Jesus) and means "perpetuity." It is the transmission of the fundamental resemblances, generation after generation, that the sources of Liberation are found. Thus the changeless reaps the harvest of the mutable. see [756](756), [326](326).

---

### [tsawkhakh](/keys/TzChCh) - צחח
> to glare, to glow, burn, to be bright, to be dazzling white, shining, to be sunny. A reference to the "White Brilliance" of Kether. *"A correspondence which indicates the mastery of the fiery Mars force which is connected with the letter Nun."* [Gematria of the Letter-names]

---

### [kav](/keys/QV) - קו
> thread, a cord, a measuring line, measuring. A rule or standard of conduct; a reference to Chokmah. One of the meanings of the number two (see [73](73)). Refers to the 24th Path of Nun as the thread or cord of perpetual change (Nun) has a face of life and a face of death but is the changeless life in reality (see [470](470)). This is the "Line of the Heavens," for *"their line is gone out through all the earth,"* says the Psalmist.

> *"The mastery [of the Mars-force] makes us conscious of that undying perpetual reality which the Hindus call sutrama, the 'thread soul'--that particular ray of the one light upon which successive personalities are strung, like beads on a thread, until mastery ends the necessity for reincarnation."* [Gematria of the Letter-names]

---

### [Eloheykem](/keys/ALHIKM) - אלהיכם
> your God. [Deuteronomy 4:23](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/4-23.htm). see [45](45), [132](132), [1145](1145), [685](685), [638](638), [666](666).

---

### [dawbaq](/keys/DBQ) - דבק
> attained; to cling, to cleave, to adhere, to join, overtake; to bring close together, to paste, glue. As a masculine noun דבק, [dehbeq](/keys/DBQ): soldering or welding of metals (alchemy). As a verb: to follow close, to pursue, to overtake. also attachment, appendage; paste, putty. "Attained (because the completion of the great work or the final occult attainment is the mastery of the force typified in Tarot as death). see [512](512). [Gematria of the Letter-names]

---

### [ha-melukah](/keys/HMLVKH) - המלוכה
> The kingdom, the realm, kingship.

---

### [ve-ha-ehben gedolah](/keys/VHABN.GDLH) - והאבן גדלה
> and a great stone. [Genesis 29:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/29-2.htm). *"and a great stone upon the well's mouth."* see [756](756)

---

### [Eliyah](/keys/OLAH) - עלאה
> Supernal. An Aramaic adjective used in The Lesser Holy Assembly in reference to supernal Wisdom (Ch2, sec 56).

---

### [ullo](/keys/OLV) - עלו
> his yoke. [Genesis 27:40](http://biblehub.com/genesis/27-40.htm). refers to the yoke of Jacob upon Esau. see [756](756), [120](120), [54](54), [372](372), [100](100), [680](680) Greek.

---

### [pook](/keys/PVK) - פוך
> Antimony. Also color, to paint, eye-paint (stibium). This word is the Hermetic name for the first matter. It is the same as "permanent water" and "philosophical mercury." see page 18 if R.C. allegory. "to color, to paint (because this attainment enables one to differentiate the white light into any color or special rate of vibration, which may be selected)." [Gematria of the Letter-names] see [160](160), [586](586).

---

### [Saeliah](/keys/SALIH) - סאליה
> 45th Shemhamphorash; angle of 9 of Cups. "Mover of all things." 221°-225°. SESM , Sun. May 3, July 14, September 24, December 5, February 15. 2:40-3:00 DUPIOR. [Psalm 94:18](http://biblehub.com/psalms/94-18.htm): *"If I say my foot slippeth, thy mercy, O Lord (IHVH) holdeth me up."*

> For confounding the wicked and the proud, to exalt the humble and the fallen. Rules vegetation; brings life and health to all who breathe, it influences through the principle agencies of nature. Person born: loves to instruct himself; he will have great means and many faculties. Godwin gives: Saliah; angel of the 3rd quinance (11°-15°) of Pisces; angel by day of the 9 of Cups. This is the operation of the Moon or subconsciousness in Briah, the World of Creation. see [965](965), [1525](1525).

---

### [ha-edomim](/keys/HADVMIM) - האדומים
> "The Edomites." Written without the Heh in [2 Chronicles 28:17](http://biblehub.com/2_chronicles/28-17.htm). *"The Edomites had again come and attacked Judah, and carried away prisoners."* i.e. these who rule the kingdoms of unbalanced force. [Paul Case: notes on numbers]. Note in this context that Judah is connected with Leo and the heart, as well as the Sun. see [30](30).

---

### [Meneiah](/keys/MANIH) - מאניה
> Maniah, "Jah is a protector".

---

### [Melahel](/keys/MLHAL) - מלהאל
> Godwin gives: angle of the 5th quinance (21°-25°) of Scorpio; angle by day of the 7 of Cups. This is the operation of the sphere of Venus or desire, in Briah, the creative world.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Rhea](/greek?word=rea) (Gr) - Ῥέα
> Earth goddess Rhea (or Cybele). A deification of Earth; producing and sustaining the wild life of nature (see 12).

> Rhea (Greek: Ῥέα) is a character in Greek mythology, the Titaness daughter of the earth goddess Gaia and the sky god Uranus, and sister and wife to Cronus. In early traditions, she is known as "the mother of gods" and therefore is strongly associated with Gaia and Cybele, who have similar functions. The classical Greeks saw her as the mother of the Olympian gods and goddesses, but not as an Olympian goddess in her own right. The Romans identified her with Magna Mater (their form of Cybele), and the Goddess Ops. *[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhea_%28mythology%29)*

---

### [sapientum](/latin?word=sapientum) (Lt)
> of the wise. see [221](221) (Lt), [142](142).

---

### [verbum fiat](/latin?word=verbum+fiat) (Lt)
> the word "let there be", the divine creative word in [Genesis 1:3](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-3.htm): *"And Elohim said 'let there be light', and there was light."*

> Jacob Boehme writes: *"As the eternal nature of the essence of external nature renews itself, and abandons that which it brought out of the eternal will into the outward by verbum fiat at creation; so may man also renew that which he makes. If he abandon the earthly, then he may renew that which he has progenerated from the eternal; but if it be not renewed, it remains in the source."* [Six Theosophic Points I 24, p.37]

---

### [Membranum T](/latin?word=membranum+T) (Lt)
"Parchment T", which was held by the corpse of C.R.C. in the Rosicrucian vault. see [94](94) (Lt).

> *"In his hand he held a parchment called T, the which next unto the Bible is our greatest treasure, which ought not to be delivered to the censure of the world."* [[True and Invisible (Weiser) p.15](https://archive.org/stream/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985#page/n23)]

---

### [theosophia](/latin?word=theosophia) (Lt)
> Literally "God-Marks"; title of a treatise by Jacob Boehme, with subtitled *"The highly precious gate of the divine intuition showing what Mysterium Magnum [The Great Mystery] is, and how all is from, through and in God; how God is near all things, and fills all."*

---

### See Also:

- [7](7)