## 107 - One Hundred Seven
> (prime). The sum of Ab (3), Aima (52) and Ben (52), the names of the Qabalistic trinity: Father (Chokmah), Mother (Binah), and Son (Tiphareth).

### [Mawgen David](/keys/MGN.DVD) - מגן דוד
> Shield of David, or Shield of Love (hexagram). The great star in the Hermit's hexagonal lantern is the macrocosmic star, referring to the Ego in Tiphareth linked by light to the paternal-maternal cosmic forces (see [701](701), [346](346), [20](20)).

### [Beni Adam](/keys/BNI-ADM) - בני־אדם
> Sons of Adam; sons of man (Humanity). [Psalm 90:3](http://biblehub.com/psalms/90-3.htm). *"Thou turnest man to destruction, and say 'return ye sons of Adam.'"*

> *"Behind these words, attributed traditionally to Moses, is the idea that really the בני־אדם are identical with the בני־אלהים [beni-elohim](/keys/BNI-ALHIM), Sons of God ([148](148)). אנוש [Enosh](/keys/ANVSh), is the state of the Sons of God when they suppose themselves to be merely the Sons of Adam, and the return is to the original Angelic condition. Now in this is the deepest mystery of Saturn closely related to the secret of Mars. The Sons of Adam have forgotten that they are truly Sons of God. For them there is no rest, and in divers ways they seek relief from the intolerable tension that is produced by the sense of separateness. Only a few members of the human race realize their true status, and live accordingly. The rest are turned to destruction until utter collapse of their supposed autonomy sends them back. Now these deluded ones see death everywhere, are taught survival perhaps, but do not usually really believe it. Thus they seek vicarious immortality in posterity, and surrender themselves to death. They who have come into the peace of the Sabbath are free from this delusion, and know better than to prolong the chain of birth and death."* [31st Communication 2/2/48]. see [357](357), [713](713), [1200](1200), [1308](1308).

### [mahlayawkayu](/keys/MLAKIV) - מלאכיו
> "ye angels of his". [Psalm 103:20](http://biblehub.com/psalms/103-20.htm): *"Bless the Lord, ye his angels, that excel in strength, that do his commandments, hearkening unto the voice of his word."* Angels is also translated, "messengers". see [91](91), [158](158).

### [Gileawd](/keys/GLOD) - גלעד
> Gilead, "hill of testimony". [Genesis 31:21](http://biblehub.com/genesis/31-21.htm): *"So he [Jacob] his face toward the Mount Gilead."* see [117](117), Abdiel; [221](221) (Jair), [317](317).

### [Onawn](/keys/AVNN) - אונן
> "Onan", probably a clan, of Canaanite origin, that lost its identity in the amalgamation of clans incidental to the growth of the tribe of Judah (Sun, Leo). In [Genesis 38:4](http://biblehub.com/genesis/38-4.htm): *"She (Shua) conceived again and gave birth to a son and named him Onan."* And in [38:9](http://biblehub.com/genesis/38-9.htm): *"But Onan knew that the offspring would not be his; so whenever he lay with his brothers wife, he spilled his seed on the ground to keep from producing offspring for his brother."* Connected with self-pollution. Note the power of Spirit (Aleph) linked (Vav) to reproductive force (Nun) in perpetual cycles of its own use, and abuse (Nun). see [757](757).

### [zeq](/keys/ZQ) - זק
> chain; flaming arrow. [Proverbs 26:18](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/26-18.htm): *"Like a madman, shooting firebrands or deadly arrows, (19) is a man who deceives his neighbor and says, 'I was only joking.'"* Also in [Psalm 149:8](http://biblehub.com/psalms/149-8.htm): *"To bind their kings with fetters, their nobles with shackles of iron."* [Key 15](15).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"זק. Every idea of diffusion in time or space. The Arabic [word] as onomatopoetic root denotes the action of pecking. זק a chain, suite, flux; a draught of anything whatsoever. That which spreads, glides, flows in space or time. Thence, years, old age, and the veneration which is attached to it: water and the purity which ensues: a chain and the strength which attends it; an arrow, etc. In a restricted sense, the Arabic [word] signifies a leather bottle where in one puts any kind of liquid. It is doubtless the Hebrew word ShQ or the Chaldaic SQ, a sack."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp. 344-345]

### [Usiel](/keys/VSIAL) - וסיאל
> According to Mathers, in [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 16], and angel of Netzach of Briah; corresponds to the 7 of Cups or sphere of Venus and desire in the creative world. Davidson gives: Uzziel, 'Strength of God', and says this is a fallen angel, but the spelling may be עזיאל. [Dictionary of Angels, p. 299]

### [beytzah](/keys/BITzH) - ביצה
> egg; symbol of the manifested universe. Given by Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 16]

## Latin

### [Christus](/latin?word=Christus) (Lt)
> Christ

### [LUX Domini](/latin?word=LUX.Domini) (Lt)
> Light of the Lord.