## 108 - One Hundred Eight
> (4x27). 20x108 = [2160](2160). 1/20 of The Great Age.

---

### [menahig](/keys/MNHIG) - מנהיג
> driver, conductive, From the verb מנהג, [minhag](/keys/MNHG), "to drive" (as a chariot). Note that the study of the Tree of Life and its relationships is often called "The Work of the Chariot." The 1st 2 letters spell: מן, [men](/keys/MN), a root meaning "to apportion." The first 3 letters spell מנה, [Menah](/keys/MNH): "to ordain, to appoint, to number." The fourth letter [Yod](/keys/I) symbolizes the Sephirah Chokmah. The fifth letter represent the 13th Path of Gimel. Thus מנהיג signifies: "The apportionment of the power of You, the Father, through Gimel." see [88](88), [424](424), [419](419), [532](532), [536](536). The [13th path](13) of Gimel, the Conductive Intelligence of Unity.

---

### [chatzi](/keys/ChTzI) - חצי
> the middle, an arrow (compare with Greek kentron, an arrow-point, hence center). Refers to the "Middle way" between the pairs of opposites. Hints at the secret of equilibrium utilized by the Lesser Adept. The control of speech (ח), through meditation (צ) leads to the perfect union (י) of the conscious and subconscious mind, resulting in superconsciousness. Refers to the position of the middle pillar on the Tree of Life. see [216](216).

> Also: חצי, half, one half. *"It refers, in part, the position of the 13th Path on the Tree of Life.. This hints at the secret of equilibrium utilized by the adept during his journey up this path to Kether."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p. 299]

---

### [Bonaim](/keys/BVNIM) - בונים
> Builders. Refers to the Elohim, the cosmic forces working through the manifested universe and in the planetary centers of man. The Essenes called themselves builders. see [142](142), [273](273), [86](86), [220](220).

---

### [azenim](/keys/AZNIM) - אזנים
> the ears.

[Psalm 40:6](http://biblehub.com/psalms/40-6.htm): *"Sacrifice and offering you did not desire-- but my ears you have opened -- burnt offerings and sin offerings you did not require."*

---

### [babey hanchal](/keys/BABI.HNChL) - באבי הנחל
> the fruit of a deep valley. The "valley" is the Abyss of the Unground, or Boundless Subsistence.

---

### [chitz](/keys/ChITz) - חיץ
> a wall. Suggests protection, as does the Magic Circle.

---

### [chamas](/keys/ChMS) - חמס
> to be sharp, bold, violent

---

### [chanan](/keys/ChNN) - חנן
> to incline, to have mercy, to love, to favor, to bestow. suggests that the supreme attainment is rather by the grace or favor of God than as the result of the aspirants personal efforts.

> - Also: to love very much, be gracious, pity; grant;
> - חנן, to make gracious, favorable; to beg for mercy.

> *"Yet it must be clearly understood that the grace or favor is not capriciously extended. God does not grant it to some and withhold it from others. It should be realized that this grace inheres in the inmost nature of the Life-power. What is here intended to be conveyed it that this particular aspect of the Life-power, rather than personal endeavors of the aspirant, is what brings about the final attainment of the crown."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p. 299]

---

### [chasam](/keys/ChSM) - חסם
> to close, to shut, to hinder

---

### [chaq](/keys/ChQ) - חק
> that which is inscribed; that which is appointed; revelation, divine (cosmic) law. Also a conclusion, an enactment, a decree. Suggests the fulfillment of the divine intention by the final stage of the way of return to the supreme goal. see [64](64), [16](16). Also: to measure out; statue, law; rule, custom; prescribed due; prescribed unit, boundary. see [113](113).

> Fabre D'Olivet writes: *"חק. Every idea of definition, impression of an object in the memory, description, narration; that which pertains to symbols, to characters of writing. In a broader sense matter used according to a determined mode. חק The action of defining, connecting, giving a dimension, deciding upon forms; of hewing, cutting after a model; to carve, to design: a thing appointed, enacted, declared, constituted, etc. The Arabic [word] develops, in general the same ideas as the Hebrew root; but is applied more particularly to that which confirms; verifies, certifies; to that which is true, just, necessary."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 354]

---

### [Gehenna, Gehinnom](/keys/GIHNM) - גיהנם
> Hell of Yesod-Malkuth. One of the 7 infernal mansions pictured in the diagram of the 4 seas. In Hebrew eschatology, the valley of Hinnom was used as the figure of everything suggestive of disgust and abhorrence. It was identified with Sheol-the place of punishment for the wicked. [Standard Bible Dictionary, p. 223] see [668](668), [337](337), [57](57), [911](911), [99](99), [1026](1026), [291](291).

---

### [Ozal, Azael](/keys/OZAL) - עזאל
> "The lust of God". A giant. Godwin gives: Azael; demon prince of water. According to Davidson, this name is also written Asiel and Azael, and means "Whom God, Strengthens": *"One of 2 fallen angels (Aza is the other) who cohabited with Naaman, la-Mech's daughter, and sired the Sedim, Assyrian guardian spirits. Azael, it is reported, is chained in a desert where he will remain until the day of judgement... In Midrash Petirat Moshen, Azael is mentioned as one of 2 angels (other being Ovza) who came down from heaven and was corrupted, Cornelius Agrippa, in his Occult Philosophy, list 4 evil angels as the opposite of the 4 Holy Rivers of the Elements; among the evil ones Azael, is included, Schwab in his Vocabulaire de L'Angelologue identifies Shamhazai (Semyaza) with Azael (Aziel), guardian of hidden treasures."* [Dictionary of Angels, p. 63]

---

### [Sagham](/keys/SGHM) - סגהם
> Lesser angel governing triplicity by day of Leo. [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 16]. Davidson: "According to Levi, Transcendental Magic, Sagham is ruler with Seratiel of the sign of Leo in the Zodiac." [Dictionary of Angels, p. 252]

---

## Latin/Greek:

---

### [testiculi](/latin?word=testiculi) (Lt)
> testicles.

---

### [illuminati](/latin?word=illuminati) (Lt)
> The illuminated or enlightened ones. Literally, those filled with light. The truth or reality has dawned in them, and they in turn become light-bearers to the rest of humanity. Their evidence was made possible by those "reservoirs" mentioned above.

---

### [Regio Lucis](/latin?word=Regio+Lucis) (Lt)
> Kingdom of Light. The dwelling-place of the illuminati. See also the "region of light", described by Thomas Vaughan as the Birth place of Mercury. see [50](50), [58](58).

---

### [Terra Sancta](/latin?word=Terra+Sancta) (Lt)
> Holy Land. This phrase implies the perfected "body of Light", for only in such a body is the "holy Land" attained. see [52](52) (Lt), [56](56) (Lt).

---

### [theoricus](/latin?word=theoricus) (Lt)
> One versed in theory. Corresponding to the 2=9 grade of Rosicrucian initiation, attributed to Yesod (Foundation) on the Tree of Life. This is the astral plane of subconsciousness, which must be purified by right knowledge before the "stars" can be activated and further building take place. see [85](85), [100](100), [142](142).

---

### See Also:

- [9](9)
