## 109 - One Hundred Nine (prime)

### [Em Kal Chai](/keys/AM.KL.ChI) - 
> Mother of all living [Genesis 3:20](http://biblehub.com//.htm). "And Adam called the name of his wife Eve (ChVH, "Nature") because she was Mother of all living things." see [18](18), [50](50), [51](51).

### [eggvol](/keys/OGVL) - 
> circle, cake, loaf, roller.

### [odidah](/keys/ODIDA) - 
> This ornament.

### [beqoz](/keys/BQZ) - 
> Lighting.

### [lahoat](/keys/LOT) - 
> taste (attributed to Teth); to swallow, greedily, gulp. Laoat [LOT]. food swallowed.

### [menochah](/keys/MNVChH) - 
> rest, quietness; resting place.

### [neggvon](/keys/NGVN) - 
> music.

### [aychemahn, aehimawn](/keys/AChIMN) - 
> "Brother of a portion" (Ahiman) Numbers 13:22](http://biblehub.com//.htm). Each brother of light has a portion of the esponsibility to extend the light to others. see [372](372).

### [Sachiel](/keys/SChIAL) - 
> Sachiel; "covering of God." Angel ruling Jupiter and Thursday (Godwin). Davidson says that this angel is "of the order of Hashmallim (Cherubim) Sachiel is resident of the first heaven (in some sources, the 6th heaven). He is a Monday (or Thursday or Friday) angel, invoked from the south (also from the west). In addition, he is a presiding spirit of the planet Jupiter. In Goetic lore, he is called a servitor of the 4 subplanes of the infernal empire." [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p. 252]

### [qat](/keys/QT) - 
> littleness, hence "little", small. [Ezekiel 16:47](http://biblehub.com//.htm): "You not only walked in their ways and copied their detestable practices, but, as if that were a very little thing, in all your ways you soon became more depraved than they." Fabre D'Olivet writes: QT. This root develops the ideas of resistance opposed to that of tension, of extension: Thence in a very broad sense the Occident; in a very restricted sense, a stick... The Arabic [word] is an onomatopoetic and idiomatic root which depicts every kind of cut made without effort, as with a knife, etc. This root employed as adverbial relation is represented by only, only so much, so little." [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 441]

### [Askozdai](/keys/ASKVZDAI) - 
> Day demon of the 2nd decanate of Aquarius, according to Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 16]

### [Tzadida](/keys/TzDIDA) - 
> Given by Mathers, without explanation in [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 17]. This word does not occur in scripture or in the Hebrew Lexicon. Of the first 2 letters Fabre D'Olivet writes: "TzD. That which is insidious, artful, double, sly, opposed, adverse, deceitful, seductive. The Arabic [word] presents in general, the same sense as the Hebrew; that is to say, every idea of opposition, defense. [Arabic word] expresses the state of quarreling, disputing. TzD in a literal sense, very restricted. the side; in a broad sense, a secret. dissimulating hindrance an artifice. a snare. [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 432] If we take Yod in this word as signifying the creative hand of God, then the first three letters suggest the secret of creativity. Fabre D'Olivet writes of the final 2 letters: "DA. This root which is only used in Hebrew in composition, is the analog of the root DI, which bears the real character of the sign of natural abundance, and of division. In Chaldiac it has an abstract sense represented by the relations of, of which, this, that, of what. The Arabic [word] characterizes a movement which is propagated without effort and without noise." [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 319]

## Greek/Latin

### [Aer](/greek?word=aer) (Gr) - 
> Air. This word appears in [Revelations 9:2](http://biblehub.com//.htm): "And he [the fifth angel] opened the pit of the abyss, and a smoke ascended out of the Pit, as a smoke of a great furnace; and the sun and the air were darkened by the smoke of the pit." Written [Greek word] in [Revelations 18:17](http://biblehub.com//.htm): "And in [1 Thessalonians 4:17](http://biblehub.com//.htm): "Then we, the living, who are left over, shall at the same time with them, be caught away in clouds, for a meeting of the Lord in the air; and so we shall be always with the Lord."

### [Hera](/greek?word=era) (Gr) - 
> Hera, the wife of Zeus (Jupiter). Means: Chosen One. aqua spherica (Lt). spherical water. Symbolized in Saint Germain's Trinosophia by a picture of the Bird of Hermes. the fiery solar fluid or mercurial water (see [372](372), [153](153)).

### [aurae crucis](/latin?word=aurae+crucis) (Lt)
> golden cross. The cross of 6 squares, belonging to the Rosicrucian order "which every brother carries on his breast." [Secret Symbols]. see [246](246), [66](66), [58](58), [62](62), [47](47) Latin.

### [voluntas](/latin?word=voluntas) (Lt)
[will](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=voluntas), desire; purpose; good will; wish, favor, consent;

> *"The will of man divides itself similarly into seven powers... The seventh is the power of givin the object chosen an existence--**voluntas.** This seventh power also contains all the others in one figure."* {[Karl von Eckartshausen, The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary, letter VI](cloud-upon-sanctuary)}