## 110 - One Hundred Ten
> (2x5x11). Sum of the first 10 even numbers from 2 to 20 inclusive. Age of Joseph when he died.

> [Genesis 50:26](http://biblehub.com/genesis/50-26.htm): *"So Joseph died, being an hundred and ten years old: and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt."*

---

### [ehben Bohan](/keys/ABN.BHN) - אבן בהן
> The stone of Bohan (the son of Reuben). [Joshua 15:6](http://biblehub.com/joshua/15-6.htm). Place-name Bohan means: The Dwarf. With different vowel points, Bohen: thumb, big-toe.

---

### [elli](/keys/OLI) - עלי
> upper, higher. Aeli [עלי]. pestle; pistil in flower.

---

### [Sitael](/keys/SITAL) - סיטאל
> "God, hope of all creatures." 3rd Shemhamphorash angel of 6 of Wands. 11°-15° inclusive. Genie: ?CHONTACR -Sun. Days: March 22, June 2, August 13, October 24, January 4. Invoke against adversities. [Psalm 91:2](http://biblehub.com/psalms/91-2.htm): *"I will say of the Lord (יהוה) He is my refuge and my fortress: my God, in him will I trust."* Time: 0:40 - 1:00 AM. Rules mobility, magnanimity, and great undertakings. Protects against weapons and ferocious beasts. One born under this influence loves truth, is true to his word, and goes gladly to help those in need on his services. Godwin gives: angel of the 3rd quinance (11°-15°) of Leo; angel by day of the 6 of Wands.

---

### [ve-Tahtz](/keys/VTHTz) - וטהץ
> Cherubic signs - Scorpio (night house of Mars) replaced by Aries (day house of Mars). The Cherubim are assigned to Yesod-Purifiers of the Foundation.

---

### [habaq, hawbahq](/keys/ChBQ) - חבק
> to embrace, clasp; comprehend, comprise. (Alternate spelling). See [107](107)

---

### [moosawd](/keys/MVSD) - מוסד
> foundation, basis [Isaiah 28:16](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/28-16.htm). *"A costly cornerstone of sure foundation."*

---

### [ab hamunah](/keys/AB.HAMVNH) - אב האמונה
> Father of Faith.

---

### [demeyon](/keys/DMIVN) - דמיונ
> resemblance, likeness, imagination, example. Name of the [24th Path](24) of [Nun](/keys/NVN), [Damyoni](/keys/DMIVNI) (Intelligence of Resemblance). see [120](120), [466](466), [470](470).

---

### [yawmin](/keys/IMIN) - ימין
> the right hand, the right, the south, the southern quarter. "At the end of the days." South is the direction of the Fire and the Sun (or heart center).

---

### [neis, nehs](/keys/NS) - נס
> A sign, flag, standard, ensign; signal, sign, miracle, wonderful or providential event. The sign of brotherhood in the unity of God is a wonderful event.

> Fabre D'Olivet observes: *"נס. Every idea of vacillation, agitation, literally as well as figuratively: That which wavers, which renders uncertain wavering. נס in a restricted sense, a flag, an ensign, the sail of a ship: in a broader sense, a movement of irresolution, uncertainty; from the idea of flag develops that of putting in evidence raising: from the idea of irresolution, that of tempting, of temptation. The Arabic [word] has only an onomatopoetic root which describes the noise of a thing floating, as water; consequently, characterizing-literally, that which imitates the movement of waves; figuratively, that which is given over to such a movement."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 402]

> In [Isaiah 49:22](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/49-22.htm): *"Thus says the Lord God: behold, I will lift up my hand to the gentiles and set up my standard to the nations; and they shall bring your sons in their arms, and your daughters shall be carried upon their shoulders."*

---

### [yawm, awm](/keys/OM) - עם
> people, nation; kinsman. All are united in resemblance by the foundation stone. Also עם, em: with, together with; by, close to, beside; while, during, as long as. see [1186](1186), [670](670).

> According to Fabre D'Olivet: *"עם Hum. Matter universalized by its faculties: Tendency of its parts one toward another; the force which makes them gravitate toward the general mass, which brings them to aggregation, accumulation, conjunction; the force whose unknown cause is expressed, by the relation with, toward, among, at. עם every idea of union, unction, conjunction, nearness: a bond, a people, a corporation. The Arabic [word] presents in general the same sense as the Hebrew. As a verb, it is the action of generalizing of making common. By [Arabic word] is understood a painful condition, a sorrow, an uneasiness, etc."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 418]

---

### [eiyel](/keys/OIL) - עיל
> height, heaven. see [116](116).

---

### [niyn](/keys/NIN) - נין
> descendant, son. [Isaiah 14:22](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/14-22.htm): *"For I will rise up against them, says the Lord of Hosts, and will cut off from Babylon the name, its descendant, the family and its generation, says the Lord."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Protheus](/latin?word=Protheus) (Lt)
> Version of Proteus - A prophet and God of the sea, with the power of changing himself into different shapes. hence, change. [Fama Page 5] *"[Rota Mundi](103) for that displaying the greatest artifice, and Protheus for the most profitable."*

---

### [unicornis](/latin?word=unicornis) (Lt)
> Unicorn; one horn. Connected with Hiram the architect of King Solomon's temple, with Hermes-Mercury and with Hod. The horn is a symbol in its higher aspect of aspiration and lofty thought; the single horn refers to the 3rd eye. see [246](246), [15](15).

> [beginning of text missing] In figure 3 it says: *"Hear without terror that in the forest are hidden a deer and a unicorn. In the body there is soul and spirit"* [Hermetic Museum I, p. 281] on page 280 *"If we apply the parable to our art... the unicorn will be the spirit at all times.. he that know how to tame and master them by art, to couple them together, and to lead them in and out of the forest, may justly be called a master."* see [56](56), [79](79) (Latin).

---

### [crux rosea](/latin?word=crux+rosea) (Lt)
> [beginning of text missing] A.E. Waite observes: *"The crux rosea, or rosy cross, might simply be a cross of that color-e.g. 'red with precious blood'... This was the general or characteristic sign, adopted when the title of rosy cross was formulated as a symbol. When the brotherhood in one of its revivals or developments became ordo roseae et aureae crucis, the emblem was a golden cross emblazoned with a red rose."* [Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross, p. 102]

---

### See Also:

- [11](11)
- [2](2)
