## 111 - One Hundred Eleven
3x37. Sum of each line of the magic square of the Sun.

### [Aleph (letter-name)](/keys/ALP) - אלף
> Ox, bull. The activity whereby the ONE reflects itself to itself, and so produces the number 2. The first out-pouring of spiritual influence into the realm of experience.

> *[Gematria PFC]*

Aleph is also the cultural power, the life breath, Superconsciousness. See also:

- [Key 0: the Fool](0)
- [Aleph](1)
- [The Eleventh Path](11)

### [eleph](/keys/ALP) - אלף
> a thousand, family, clan, cattle.

### [illafe](/keys/ALP) - אלף
> to teach, instruct, train, to learn, to slip, to guide.

### [Pehleh](/keys/PLA) - פלא
> Wonderful, admirable, mystical, marvelous, hidden, extraordinary. Adjective used to describe Kether. The reversal of the meaning of Aleph, whereby the limitless light is condensd by a contracting spiral into the first point or the crown. Used in Hebrew [Isaiah 9:6](http://biblehub.com//.htm) as the first of a series of divine names. Also to divide, separate, distinguish. Root meaning is that which is set off; miracle. Rfers to the initial act of apparent division, or separation, whereby manifestation is begun. Pehleh suggests that Aleph's power in the 11th path of Aleph is like a reflection of the power of Kether. See [157](157), [507](507), [620](620), [579](579), [876](876), [831](831), [142](142), [217](217), [242](242), [311](311), [255](255), [532](532), [364](364).

Also:

- [Pillae](/keys/PLA): to search, to make special (vows). see [164](164)

### [pehleh](/keys/PLA)
> wonderful, admirable, mystical, marvelous, hidden, extraordinary. Adjective used to describe Kether. The reversal of the meaning of Aleph, whereby the limitless light is condensed by a contracting spiral into the first point or the crown. Used in Hebrew [Isaiah 9:6] as the first of a series of divine names.

Also to divide, separate, distinguish. Root meaning is that which is set off; miracle. Refers to the initial act of apparent division, or separation, whereby manifestation is begun. Pehleh suggest that Aleph's power in the 11th path of Aleph is like a reflection of the power of Kether. see 157, 507, 620, 579, 876, 831, 142, 217, 242, 311, 255, 532, 364

"The doctrines of the grade of Ipsissimus are derived from the letters of this word. Kether is also called the Admirable or Mystical Intelligence. The Hebrew is Pahlah (PLA) said to be the 'light which imparts understanding of the beginning-which is without beginning'... 4) Peh, The Tower. The extraordinary words of a 'knower of the self' are largely applications of the Mars force-essentially like electricity and governed by similar laws, the force in inimical to man only so long as he misunderstands and misuses it. Rightly understood it breaks down all structures of error, overthrows the false knowledge of separateness and rids the personality of all delusion... 5) Lamed, Justice. An Ipsissimus is a perfectly poised personality. He has transmuted ambition entirely but works as do those who are ambitious. He has transmuted desire of life but respects life as do those who desire it. He has transmuted desire for comfort but is happier than those who live for happiness. His will is one with the Originating Will of the universe, and he shares the mastery of the Will over all things. 6) Aleph, Key 0, The Fool. The 'Knower of the Self' is the Mystical Fool of all sacred allegories. Nothing binds him. he is beyond every limitation of 'this world.' His motives and his actions are incomprehensible to the masses of merely natural men. Sometimes they worship him. Often they deride him. Always they fear him. His instruction they may grasp, so far as he makes it comprehensible to intellect, but the essence of the man eludes them. They who have attained to the highest Grade of the Invisible Order have few companions in the world, yet they are never lonely. They live in silent but vivid communication which each other, and they share in the bliss of the Heavenly vision. Their light shines in the darkness of the 'false world,' but that darkness cannot swallow it up." [Paul Case: True and Invisible, p. 307-308]

> A precious stone; stone of grace; jewel. The alchemist's "Stone of the Wise." The realization that the One Ego in Tiphareth is identical to the cosmic Life-Force in Chokmah. In [Proverbs 17:8](http://biblehub.com//.htm), Chane KN, signifies grace, favor, something precious, goodwill. It forms the initials of Chokmah Nestawrah, "The Secret Wisdom," i.e. Qabalah. Paul Case notes: "Thus the three words (ALP, ABN, CN) suggest the multiplication, or development, of the stone of the secret wisdom (i.e. stone of the wise) through the power that may be designated either as AChD or as AHBH. But, since ABN-ChN = ALP, is it not clear [text ends] see 53, 58, 788.

> [Proverbs 17:8](http://biblehub.com//.htm): "A gift is as a precious stone in the eyes of him who has it: wherever it turns, it prospers." The Zohar [IV:1840, pp. 126-127] observes: "The lower world is always in a receptive state-being called 'a good (precious) stone'-and the upper world only communicates to it according to the condition in which it is found at any given time. If it shows a smiling countenance, light and joy from the world above pour down upon it; but if it be sad and downcast, it receives the severity of judgement, as it written 'worship the Lord in Joy' [Psalm 100:2] That the joy of man may draw down upon him supernal joy. So, too, does the lower sphere affect the upper: according to the degree of awakening below there is awakening and heavenly joy above. Therefore the Israelites hast to awaken the voice of the trumpet, which is compounded of fire, water and wind, and all are made one and the voice ascends and strikes that 'precious stone', which then receives the various colors of this voice and then draws down upon itself the attribute from above according to the color which it shows. And when it is duly prepared by this voice, mercy issues from on high and rest upon it, so that it is enfolded in mercy, both above and below." (ABN ChN = ALP).


### [Ehben-Khane](/keys/ABN.ChN) - אבן חן
> A precious stone; stone of grace; jewel. The alchemists's "Stone of the Wise." The realization that the One Ego in Tiphareth is identical to the cosmic Life-Force in Chokmah. In [Proverbs 17:8]((http://biblehub.com/1_kings/11-23.htm)), [Khane](/keys/ChN) signifies grace, favor, something precious, goodwill. It forms the initials of [Chokmah Nesethrah](/keys/ChKMH.NSThRH), "The Secret Wisdom," i.e. Qabalah. Thus the three words (ALP, ABN, ChN) suggest the multiplication, or development, of the stone of the secret wisdom (i.e. the stone of the wise) through the power that may be designated either as AChD or AHBH. See [53](53), [58](58), 788. *[Gematria PFC]*

> [Proverbs 17:8](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/17-8.htm): *A gift is as a precious stone in the eyes of him that hath it: whithersoever it turneth, it prospereth.*

> The Zohar [IV:1840] observes: *The lower world is always in a receptive state -- being called 'a good (precious) stone' -- and the upper world only communicates to it according to the condition in which it is found at any given time. If it shows a smiling countenance, light and joy from the world above pour down upon it; but if it be sad and downcast, it receives the severity of judgement, as it is written 'worship the Lord in Joy' [Psalm 100:2](http://biblehub.com/psalms/100-2.htm). That the joy of man may draw upon him supernal joy. So, too, does the lower sphere affect the upper: according to the degree of awakening below there is awakening and heavenly joy above. Therefore the Israelites have to awaken the voice of the trumpet, which is compounded of fire, water and wind, and all are made one and the voice ascends and strikes that '[precious stone](/keys/ABN.ChN)', which then receives the various colors of this voice and then draws down upon itself the attribute from above according to the color which it shows. And when it is duly prepared by this voice, mercy issues from on high and rests upon it, so that it is enfolded in mercy, both from above and below.*

### [Elyah](/keys/OLYA) - עליא
The Most High

### [Brother P.A.L.](/keys/PAL) - פאל
One of the founders of the Rosicrucian Order, "who had determined to go to the Holy Land," and who "died in Cyprus, and so never came to Jerusalem."

The reference "died in Cyprus" could indicate [Key 13: Death](13), which is also the [24th Path of Nun](24), connecting Netzach (the Sphere of Venus) to Tiphareth. Cyprus is the origin of the metal copper in the ancient world, and Copper was the metal of Venus.

P=Mouth A=Ox L=Ox-Goad. This indicates the Word of God as the directive force of the Life-Breath.

### See Also

- [3](3)



### [Echad Hu Elohim](/keys/AChD.HVA.ALHIM)
> One is he, Creative Power is One, The Lord is One. The first word refers to Chokmah, the 2nd to Kether, and the 3rd to Binah. It sums up the powers of the first 3 Sephiroth.

### [ophel](/keys/APL)
> thick darkness, obscurity; gloom. figuratively, misfortune. IHVH said he dwelt in the thick darkness. In [Job 2:3](http://biblehub.com//.htm), ABN APL "The stone (concealed in) thick darkness.

### [kepha](/keys/KIPA)
> Aramaic name for Peter; the Rock [Kephas]. see [3](3), [12](12) [21](21), [30](30), [39](39), [48](48), [57](57), [66](66), [75](75), [84](84), [93](93), [102](102), [120](120). [Rod. Lex.N.T p. 57

### [adamoni](/keys/ADMVNI)
> red; reddish, red-haired. Described of Esau. [Genesis 25:25](http://biblehub.com//.htm). see 45.

### [asan](/keys/ASN)
> ruin, destruction, sudden death.

### [mehollal](/keys/MHVLL)
> mad; jolly, jovial. see Key 0, the Fool.

### [aovelah, olah](/keys/OVLA)
>. Evil, wrong, injustice, inequity, wickedness. Refers to the apparent inequity of some phases of cosmic manifestation.

### [olah](/keys/OVLH)
> a step, a staircase. The graded ascent of evolutionary development.

### [oleh](/keys/OVLH)
> one going up, a pilgrim, a new settler, immigrant. Also means [avela] a burnt-offering, a sacrifice. Refers to the self-offering of the Life-power in the perpetual sacrifice of cosmic manifestation.

### [Olvah](/keys/OVLA)
> Duke of Edom, a hidden reference to Daath. [Isaiah 21:11](http://biblehub.com//.htm): "The oracle concerning Edom [Dumah, DVMH], One keeps calling me from Sier [reference to Edom, MShOIR, from Sier],'Watchman how far gone is the night?' 'Watchman, how far gone is the night?' [literally, what is the time of the night] [This entry needs more research and clarification]

### [voo-ba-ehbanim](/keys/VBABNIM)
> and in (vessels of) stone [Exodus 7:20]. see [671](671).

### [yetzuah](/keys/ITzVH)
> will command

### [Nachiel](/keys/NKIAL)
> Intelligence of the Sun.

### [mesuah?](/keys/MSVH)
> a veil, or face covering [Exodus 34:33](http://biblehub.com//.htm). ennes ANS. to commit rape; to take by force, rob. also ANS (anaws) robber, violent man.

### [Jehoakin](/keys/IHVIKIN)
> "Appointed by God."

### [leawbedawh](/keys/LOBDH)
> "to till it" (the Garden of Eden]. From OLD (awbad) to work, labor; to till, cultivate; to serve, worship.

### [Nachiel, Nakiel, Nakhiel](/keys/NKIAL)
> Angel of the Sun. "In the Qabalah, the intelligence of the Sun, when the sun enters the sign of Leo. Nachiel's corresponding spirit is Sorath, according to Paracelsus's doctrine of Talismans." [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p. 203] see 666.

### [oolah](/keys/OVLH)
> young girl. The "bride", Malkuth, after being married to the "King", Tiphareth. Aleph, the "eternal youth."

### [Coheni IHVH](/keys/KHNI.IHVH)
> "Priest of the Lord". [Isaiah 61:6] "And you shall be named the priest of the Lord: men shall call you the ministers of our God. You shall eat the riches of the gentiles, and in their glory shall you boast yourselves."

###/keys/A.AL.ALV.ALVH [Elohah (Tetractys)]
> God, deity. Written as a tetractys:

	A       =  1
	L A     = 31
	V L A   = 37
	H V L A = 42
	=        111

> This word is 42 by itself. The Alephs = 4, the 3 Lameds = 90, the 2 Vavs = 12 and the single Heh = 5. This is concealed the formula 4+90+12+5 as well as 1+31+37+42. see APH.

## Greek/Latin:

### hoika (Gr)
> House, abode, residence; family. These all describe our relation to the Life-power.

### enna (Gr)
> Nine. the number of a complete cycle.

### gloria mundi (Lt)
> glory of the world. The Emerald Tablet says: "So thou hast the glory of the whole world; therefore let all obscurity flee thee..."

### E pluribus (Lt)
> From many, out of many. Used on the Great Seal of the U.S. Describes the apparent multiplicity of forms of the One Unity.

### Trifolium (Lt)
> Trefoil.

### AOM (Lt)
> Equivalent to AUM, the Hindu Pranava or sacred syllable, commonly written OM.

### argent vive (Lt)
> "living silver". Mrs. Atwood writes: "Convert the elements, say Arnold [Divillanova], and you will find what you seek; for our [alchemic] operation is nothing else than a mutation of natures, and the method of conversion in our argent vive is the reduction of natures to their first root." [A Suggestive Inquiry into Alchemy, p. 84]. According to the Golden treaties of Hermes, I: "Keep therefore, thy argent vive, which is prepared in the innermost chamber in which it is coagulated; for that is mercury which is spoken of ?con?. the residual earth."