## 112 - One Hundred Twelve
> (7x16). Area of each of the curtains of the tabernacle in [Exodus 26:1](http://biblehub.com/exodus/26-1.htm).

### [El eloim](/keys/AL.ALIM) - אל אלים
> God of gods. [Daniel 11:36](http://biblehub.com/daniel/11-36.htm). see [672](672).

### [Chasidika](/keys/ChSIDIK) - חסידיך
> Thy Holy One; Thy Godly One. [Psalm 16:10](http://biblehub.com/psalms/16-10.htm).

### [Jehovah Elohim](/keys/IHVH.ALHIM) - יהוה אלהים
> The Lord God. The special Divine Name of Binah, the third Sephirah. This name shows she is the active agency whereby the inciting and masculine power of Chokmah (יהוה) is made manifest in the work of creation. [Genesis 2:4](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-4.htm): *"These are the generations of the heavens and the earth when they were created, in the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens."*

> The Zohar [I:20A, p. 84] adds: *"And God made the two great lights. [Genesis 1:16](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-16.htm). The word 'made' signifies the due expansion and establishment of the whole. The words 'the two great lights' shows that at first they were associated as equals, symbolizing the full name יהוה אלהים (Although the later part is not revealed, but is known inferentially)."*

> [Beginning of text missing] *"...of the while Torah, both of the written and of the oral, for "Torah" stands for both, the former being symbolism of יהוה, and the latter of אלהים. יהוה is above, while אלהים is below, one indicating the higher world and the other the lower. This is the essence of all things, and it is necessary that man should perceive it in this world."*

> I.R.Q. 735: *"יהוה אלהים, is the full name of the most ancient of all, and of Microprosopus; and when joined together they are the full name. But the other forms are not called the full name."* I.R.Q., 795: Seeing that יהוה denotes the masculine and אלהים the feminine." see [86](86).

> [Genesis 2:4](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-4.htm). see [42](42), [52](52), [67](67), [86](86), [199](199), [265](265).

### [kabode Elohim](/keys/KBD.ALHIM) - כבד אלהים
> Glory of God. [Proverbs 25:2](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/25-2.htm). "It is the glory of God (Elohim) to conceal a thing, and the glory of kings is to search out a matter." see [32](32), [672](672), [679](679).

### [binah adam](/keys/BINH.ADM) - בינה אדם
> the understanding of man. The first property of the Life-power, that limits and compresses (Saturn) to produce the frames or forms of all things, is an essential part of the constitution of man. [Proverbs 30:2](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/30-2.htm). see [672](672).

### [baali](/keys/BOLI) - בעלי
> masters.

### [ve-Adam ain](/keys/VADM.AIN) - ואדם אין
> "and no man." [Genesis 2:5](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-5.htm): *"When no plant of the field was yet in the earth, and no herb of the field had yet sprung up, the Lord God had not [yet] caused it ot rain upon the earth, and there was no man to till the ground."*

### [hedeq](/keys/ChDQ) - חדק
> sharpness; brier. Also, חדק, to press into, drive in.

### [debok](/keys/DBVQ) - דבוק
> joining, attachment; glue; solder. Also dybbuk, a ghost possessing man's body. As an adjective, joined, attached.

### [Aiaual](/keys/AIOAL) - איעאל
> "God, delight of the children of man." 67th Shemhamphorash, angle of the 2 of Cups. 331°-335°. ABIOU-Saturn. May 25, August 5, October 16, December 27, March 9. 10:00-10:20 AM. [Psalm 37:4](http://biblehub.com/psalms/37-4.htm). ("Daleth") *"Resign thyself unto the Lord (ליהוה) and wait patiently for him; fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked desire to pass."*

> For consolation in adversities, and to acquire wisdom. Rules changes, the preservation of monuments, longevity. Influences the occult sciences. Brings knowledge and truth to those who have recourse to him (the Shemhamphorash) in their works.

> Person born: Will be illuminated by the spirit of God; loves solitude, distinguishes himself in the transcendent sciences; principally astronomy, physics, and philosophy. see [965](965), [1525](1525).

> Godwin gives: Ayoel; angel of the 1st quinance (1°-5°) of Cancer; angel by day of the 2 of Cups. This represents the operation of Chokmah, sphere of the Zodiac, in Briah, the creative world. see [81](81).

### [Haqabah](/keys/HQBH) - הקבה
> A name of God; acronym for [ha-qodosh baruk-hu](/keys/HQDVSh.BRVK.HVA), "The Holy One, blessed be He" (Godwin). See [655](655).

## Latin/Greek:

### [Aggelo](/greek?word=aggelo) (Gr) - αγγελο
> angel. Angel means messenger and may refer to illuminated men (see [386](386) Greek).

### [omnia ad unum](/latin?word=omnia+ad+unum) (Lt)
> all into one. see [46](46), [61](61) (Lt).

### [Lac Virginis](/latin?word=Lac+Virginis) (Lt)
> Virgin's Milk. First Matter. An unctuous, oily "water" or chyle-a milky, fatty lymph which is one f the principal means whereby the blood is supplied with the energy derived from food. Formed in the Virgo region of the small intestine and contains compounds of oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, the esoteric fire (sulfur), water (mercury) and earth (salt). The form of the first matter used by adepts to perform the Great Work.

### [Prima Materia](/latin?word=Prima+Materia) (Lt)
> First Matter. The substance of all things, the divine spiritual energy or mind-stuff, to be sought by alchemist in the "Bowels of the Earth" (see above). Manifested through subconsciousness.

> Jacob Boehme writes: *"And thus we understand here the essence of all beings, and that it is a magical essence, as a will can create itself in the essential life, and so enter into a birth, and in the great mystery, in the origin of fire, awaken a source which before was not manifest, but lay hidden in mystery like a gleam in the multiplicity of colors; as we have a mirror of this in the devils and in all malignity. And we recognize also form whence all things, evil and good, take their origin, namely from the imagination of the great mystery, where a wonderful essential life generates itself."* [Mysterium Pansophicum V, p. 160]

> Paul Case note: *"Hence for Jacob Boehme 'the imagination in the great mystery' is the Prima Materia, or first matter."*

> *"The endless energy and unsearchable Primum Mobile (#[130](130)) are represented by the trinity, which produces the Fiat (#[31](31)) and produces nature in the mode of Prima Materia, otherwise chaos (#[42](42))"* [A.E. Waite: Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross, p. XXII]

### [Sella turcica](/latin?word=Sella+turcica) (Lt)
> Turkish saddle; a protective bone covering the pituitary body, a "skull within a skull". The Pituitary is the focus of the Moon center.

### [apperceptio](/latin?word=apperceptio) (Lt)
[apperceptio](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=apperceptio): learning, grasping, perceiving.

> *The human understanding is divided into seven powers ... By the second we perceive the objects so regarded--**apperceptio**.*

> *...Our understanding is formed after that of Jesus Christ ... (2) when we perceive His actions, His sentiments and His spirit everywhere--**apperceptio**.* {[Karl von Eckartshausen, The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary, Letter VI](cloud-upon-sanctuary)}


See Also:

- [4](4)