## 113 - One Hundred Thirteen (prime)

---

### [ehben bokhan](/keys/ABN.BChN) - אבן בחן
> a tried stone [Isaiah 28:16](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/28-16.htm). Reference to the mystical lamb with seven horns [Secret symbols, page 35]. The lamb is כר (CR), and the 7 horns are the personified powers of the brethren who helped C.R. found the Rosicrucian order. see [137](137), [220](220), [314](314), [1483](1483), [1973](1973).

---

### [ha-bonaim](/keys/HBVNIM) - הבונים
> "the builders" [Psalm 118:22](http://biblehub.com/psalms/118-22.htm): *"The stone which the builders refused is become the headstone of the corner."* see [1389](1389) (Greek), [673](673).

---

### [mah-ha-banaiy](/keys/MH-HBNAI) - מה־הבנאי
> what! the builders! see [45](45), [108](108).

---

### [mah-haboneh](/keys/MH-HBVNH) - מה־הבונה
> Power of the Builder. Observe that 113 is the result from [[what](/keys/MH)! [the builders](/keys/HBVNH)!], an interpretation accepted by many modern commentators, and that is equivalent numerically to מכבנא ([knoll](/keys/MKBNA)), which closely approximates the continental form. if to 113 we add [90](90), [79](79), [732](732) and [548](548) the total is 113+1490 = [1603](1603), a primary number whose digits reduce to 10 (26+1496=[1522](1522)). If we take in the above, the final Nun as 700 then it will be 740+79+732+1248 = [2799](2799), and 113 +2799 = [2912](2912) = 23x7x26 or 24x7x13. This seems rather significant especially as 113 may be taken in either the continental or English version. Also [2799](2799) = 33x311 and 311 is the reflection of 113. [311](311) includes among its means איש [a man, husband](/keys/AISh) and רפאל [Raphael](/keys/RPAL), angelic patron of Building and Mercury. see [311](311).

---

### [ha-neahawbim](/keys/HNAHBIM) - הנאהבים
> the lovers, the beloved. Title of [Key 6](6) ([Zain](/keys/Z)). [2 Samuel 1:23](http://biblehub.com/2_samuel/1-23.htm): *"Saul and Jonathan were lovely [beloved] and pleasant in their lives, and in their death they were not divided: they were swifter than eagles, they were strong than lions."* (David's lament at news of the death of Saul, and Saul's son Jonathan). from נאה, "comely, becoming, befitting."

---

### [Beulah](/keys/BOVLH) - בעולה
> Beulah, "espoused". [Isaiah 62:4](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/62-4.htm) *"Thou shalt no more be termed forsaken; neither shall thy land any more be termed desolate: but thou shalt be called Hephzibah ['my delight is in her', #[192](192)], and thy land Beulah: for the Lord delighteth in thee, and thy land shall be married."* A reference to the New Jerusalem ["Abode of Peace"] of prophecy.

---

### [selichawah](/keys/SLIChH) - סליחה
> forgiveness, pardon; penitential.

---

### [Nechemyah](/keys/NChMIH) - נחמיה
> Nehemiah, "Yah comforts"; name of a Persian cup-bearer to the king who helped the Jews rebuild the wall of Jerusalem after their return form exile. [Nehemiah 1:1](http://biblehub.com/nehemiah/1-1.htm): *"The words of Nehemiah son of Hekaliah: 'in the month of Kisev in the twentieth year, while I was in the citadel of Susa ([2](http://biblehub.com/nehemiah/1-2.htm)) Hanani, one of my brothers, came from Judah with some other men, and I questioned that about the Jewish remanent that had survived the exile, and also about Jerusalem."*

---

### [peleg](/keys/PLG) - פלג
> Godwin gives: Peleg, son of Eber; father of Rev. [Genesis 10:25](http://biblehub.com/genesis/10-25.htm) *"Two sons were born to Eber: one was named Peleg, because in this time the earth was divided; his brother was named Joktan."*

> Phaleg; Olympic planetary sprit of Mars. Davidson adds that this angel is also known by Phalec, and say he is *"ruling prince of the order of angels. Phalec is also the governing spirit of the planet Mars (and hence often referred to, as he is by Corellus Agrippa, as the wail lord). Of the 106 Olympic provinces, Phalec has dominion over 35. His day, for invocation, is Tuesday. According to Agrippa, heaven has 196 provinces, with 7 supreme angles governing them, of whom Phalec is one.. in white magic, Phaleg is one of the 7 stewards of heaven."* [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p. 223-224]

---

### [gawg-hahupah?](/keys/GGChChVPH) - גגחחופה
> "Tectum coeli fabrilis sub quo desponsationes coniugum fuint." (Under which dispensation you made the roof (GG GG) of the heavens to be joined together") An abbreviation or notariqon. see [6](6), [390](390). [Note that notariqon adds to 113, need to check spelling]

---

## Greek/Latin

---

### [sepulcrum](/latin?word=sepulcrum) (Lt)
> seplchre; tomb, resting-place. The inner light embodied in physical form. Part of a phrase found written on the altar of the vault of Brother C.R. see [122](122) (Latin).

---

### [Deus et homo](/latin?word=Deus+et+homo) (Lt)
> God and Man.

---

### [legis jugum](/latin?word=legis+jugum) (Lt)
> yoke of the law. A motto mentioned in the Fama. see [170](170), [65](65), [155](155), [136](136), [574](574) Latin. See True and Invisible (Weiser) p. 124.

---

### [Mesericordia](/latin?word=Mesericordia) (Lt)
> Mercy. Equivalent to Chesed (see [72](72)).

---

### [propinqua](/latin?word=propinqua) (Lt)
> now; the present time, i.e. eternity.

---

### [Radix David](/latin?word=Radix+David) (Lt)
> Root of David. see [137](137), [50](50) Latin.

---

### [spiritum](/latin?word=spiritum) (Lt)
> spirit. As spelled in an inscription found in the vault of C.R. in the Rosicrucian allegory. It includes the phrase: *"Through the Holy Spirit we become alive again."* see [683](683) Latin, [119](119).

---

### [corporalis](/latin?word=corporalis) (Lt)
> of the body; substance, essence of. see [277](277) (Lt).

---

### See Also:

- [5](5)