## 114 - One Hundred Fourteen
> (2x57)

---

### [galah sodo](/keys/GLH.SVDV) - גלה סודו
> he reveals his secret. [Amos 3:7](http://biblehub.com/amos/3-7.htm): *"For the Lord GOD does nothing without revealing his secret to his servants the prophets."* Written of God's revelation of his purposes to prophets (see [38](38), [76](76)).

---

### [demaho](/keys/DMO) - דמע
> juice (of grapes or olives), wine or oil (literally tears of olives or grapes); tear, the priest's share of fruit. As the metathesis of MDO, this suggest creative imagination (Daleth) impregnating the power of substance (Mem), to produce the "juice" or drops (tears) or radiant Yod force. "Wine" is associated with blood, and this has its implications in the microcosm. "Oil" is connected with the serpent-power (Teth). Also דמע to shed tears, weep. see [44](44).

---

### [melahmed](/keys/MLMD) - מלמד
> teacher, tutor (evidently the root is Lamed). Also מלמד ox-goad; מלמד (maylumawd) trained, skilled, learned; scholar, man of learning. Teaching and training is a key to knowledge of "wine" and "oil". see [74](74).

---

### [channun](/keys/ChNVN) - חנון
> gracious, merciful; obliging, indulgent. The supreme attaintment is by the grace and mercy of God. see [108](108).

---

### [Gamaliel](/keys/GMLIAL) - גמליאל
> "Reward of God", "recompense of God". Qlippoth of Yesod. Eliphas Levi in his Philosophie Occulte rate Gamaliel as evil, 'an adversary of the Cherubim', serving under Lilth (who is the Demon of Debauchery). However, in the Qabalistic and Gnostic writing Gamaliel is also a beneficent spirit associated with Gabriel, Abraxas, etc. Whose mission is to draw the elect up to heaven' [Davidson]. This suggest that when the powers of subconsciousness are purified they are God's reward; unpurified they are keys to hell.

> Godwin gives: "The Obscene Ones". Kenneth Grant writes: *"Da'ath was the cosmic moon and the source of the illusion of phenomenlity, i.e. the ego; Yesod was the astral or celestial moon, the moon of magic and witchcraft...Da'ath is to the supernal triad what Yesod is to the infernal triad, and it is significant that the Qilphotic image which the Jews assigned to Yesod was that of Gamaliel, the obscene ass. According to Sharpe the head of the ass is an Egyptian hieroglyphic determinative having the numerical equivalent of 30, which shows its relationship to the lunar current and the month of 30 days divided into three parts, each of ten days... (p. 112) elsewhere he says that "the formula of Gamaliel" is that of the 'obscene woman' whose zoomorphic symbol is the ass which the templars were accused of worshiping."* (p. 263) [Nights of Eden]

---

### [gi-hinnom](/keys/GIHNVM) - גיהנום
> Gehenna; Hell. The valley of the 'sons of Hinnom', near Jerusalem; the place where in ancient times children were sacrificed to the God Moloch. Later Jewish abhorrence of this practice caused the name Genenna, to be used as a name for Sheol, or hell. [Standard Bible dictionary, p. 426] see [674](674).

> It was seen as the place of eternal torment, where refuse of all sorts was subsequently cast, for the consumption of which fires were kept constantly burning. [Brewer's Dictionary of Phrase and Fable, p. 392]. see [13](13), [14](14).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [claustrum](/latin?word=claustrum) (Lt)
> bar, bolt, bounds, cloister. *"In the Fama C.R.C. was placed in a cloister in the 5th year of his age. The cloister, indicates the state of relative bondage which precedes the work of liberation. To be placed in a cloister is to be shut away from the world, to be separated from the rest of mankind. Yet what is shut away is actually the essentially free spirit. Free in itself, the Christos assumes the burdens of apparent limitation imposed by its incarnation in human personality. In the Gospel of St, John: "The Logos became flesh, and tabernacle among us; and we beheld his radiance, a radiance as a son onebegotten from a father, full of grace and truth."* [True and Invisible, page 102-102].

> The spiritual motivation comes from the awakening of our desire by an impulse originating in the universal and indivisible self. Unless this eager longing is stirred, the indwelling Christos remains locked in the cloister of the 5-sense life. Thus all mystery rites agrees that the first preparation of a candidate for initiation must be in the heart.

---

### [propinqua](/latin?word=propinqua) (Lt)
> now; the present time. i.e. eternity.

---

### [conclusus](/latin?word=conclusus) (Lt)
> enclosed, confined, shut up. Implies spirit encompassed withing the limitations of form. Part of a phrase. see [204](204) (Latin).

---

### [legis jugum](/latin?word=legis+jugum) (Lt)
> yoke of the law. The second motto found in the vault of C.R. in the Rosicrucian allegory. It was written around a circle enclosing the figure of an ox. *"Esoterically, this means the yoke of the law, and refers to the law of Moses, expounded in the Old Testament. But note that it is connected with the sign Taurus, and that a yoke is placed on the neck, ruled by that sign. We know today that the Sanskrit noun yoga and the Latin Jugum are from the same ancient root. The esoteric meaning of this motto has to do with the law of yoga, and particularly what the functions of a center located in the neck or throat, suggested, the Rosicrucian allegory by Cyprus (#[870](870)), the story of C.R.'s journey, and by Galia Narbonensi (#[137](137)) in another place. In one sense, this motto is a reference to Jesus declaration that not one jot or title of the law shall pass away until all be fulfilled. In a deeper sense it is an intimation that the Mosaic law, which was a law of sacrifice, is itself a symbol of those preparatory processes of yoga, in which the seeker for enlightenment loosens the bonds of material form and appearance, represented by Taurus, the earthy fixed sign symbolized by the figure of an Ox. There is no actual sacrifice, for what is given up is a delusion. yet there is the semblance of death, as we learn from the Fama, for Brother P.A.L. [#[111](111)] dies at Cyprus, and Brother dies at Gallia Narbonensi. Yoga effect a transmutation (death) of the Life-force (P.A.L. or A.) in the throat-center, and the processes whereby this is accomplished are the preliminary stages of Yoga and of the alchemical great work. They are processes which kill out the sense of separateness, and thus awaken the realization of union (jugum)."* [[Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (Weiser), p. 124-125](https://archive.org/stream/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985#page/n129/mode/2up)] see [137](137) (Latin)

---

### [subordinare](/latin?word=subordinare) (Lt)
[arrange under](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=subordinare) sub-: up to, under. ordinare: order/arrange, set in order; adjust, regulate; compose; ordain/appoint (Bee).

> *"Our heart is also reformed in like manner, when in everything... (6) we live only in harmony with Him, after His commandments, institutions and orders--**subordinare.**"* {[Karl von Eckartshausen, The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary, letter VI](cloud-upon-sanctuary)}

---

### See Also:

- [6](6)
