## 115 - ONe Hundred Fifteen
> (5x23)

### [yawleh](/keys/IOLH) - יעלה
> went up. [Genesis 2:6](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-6.htm): "A mist went up." (עלה to go up, ascend). see [512](512).

### [Azazel](/keys/OZAZL) - עזאזל
> "God strengthens." Demon, devil. [עז: strength, power courage; with different vowel points: strong, fierce, cruel.] As an interrogation: "to Hell!" לזאזל--Hebrew Lexicon. Azazel or Azael is one of the chiefs of the 200 fallen angels. He is the scapegoat of Rabbinic literature. In the Zohar [va-yeze 153A] the rider on the serpent is symbolized by "the evil Azazel." Jewish legend speaks of Azazel as the angel who refused to bow down before Adam when the first human was presented to God to the assembled hierarchies in heaven. He "taught men to fashion swords and shield," while women learned from him "finery and the art of beautifying the eyelids." Godwin: Demon prince of Air.

### [Damlial](/keys/DMLIAL) - דמליאל
> Geomantic intelligence of Virgo. The sign is ruled by Mercury. Note the first two letters דם are the word for Blood, and the connection with self-conscous creation. see [44](44).

### [henneiy](/keys/HNNI) - הנני
> Here am I, Here I am. The I AM is everywhere, and everything. also: "behold", in [Isaiah 28:16](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/28-16.htm). see [400](400), [1973](1973), [2478](2478), [2965](2965).

### [chum ha-yom](/keys/ChVM.HIVM) - חום היום
> the heat of the day. חם [Khem](/keys/ChM) is the root of "alchemy" and "chemistry"; IVM, yom or "day" means the manifest. see [48](48), [56](56).

### [chazoq](/keys/ChZQ) - חזק
> to be strong; be firm, to hold vast, to press, be urgent; to be hard, be severe, vehement, eager.

### [seneh](/keys/SNH) - סנה
> thorn-bush, thorn.

### [eliadah](/keys/ALIDO) - אלידע
> "God knows". The father of Rezon ("Prince") or Zabah. [1 Kings 11:23](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/11-23.htm): *"And God stirred him up [Pharaoh] another adversary, Rezon the son of Eliadam."* see [263](263).

### [Pahel](/keys/PHL) - פהל
> 20th Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 2nd quinance (6°-10°) of Scorpio. see [130](130), [1525](1525).

## Greek/Latin:

### [appetitus](/latin?word=appetitus) (Lt)
[appetite](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=appetitus), desire; esp. natural/instinctive desire;

> *"The will of man divides itself similarly into seven powers... The second is the power to annex mentally things desired for oneself--**appetitus**"* {[Karl von Eckartshausen, The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary, letter VI](cloud-upon-sanctuary)}

### See Also:

- [7](7)
