## 118 - One Hundred Eighteen
> (2x59)

---

### [khalaph](/keys/ChLP) - חלף
> to pass, renew, change, pass away, to pass through, pierce, to came anew, sprout again.

---

### [kheleph](/keys/ChLP) - חלף
> to exchange, to return for; in place of; shoot, reed.

---

### [khelaph](/keys/ChLP) - חלף
> slaughtering knife.

---

### [chesan](/keys/ChSN) - חסן
> strength; Chassan, ruler of Air.

---

### [Kohen Gadol](/keys/KHN.GDVL) - כהן גדול
> High Priest. The Hebrew for Hierophant. (Serpent Power page 148). [118](118) rays of [360](360) is AGRI. see [106](106), [136](136), [128](128).

---

### [chamo](/keys/ChMO) - חמע
> in alchemy, vinegar, acetum; also means to ferment. see [830](830).

---

### [ha-nabiyeem](/keys/HNBIAIM) - הנביאים
> "the prophets" [Amos 3:7](http://biblehub.com/amos/3-7.htm): *"Surely the Lord will do nothing, but he reveleth his secret unto his servants the prophets."* see [402](402), [76](76), [92](92).

---

### [Hamigin](/keys/HMIGIN) - המיגין
> Hamigin or Gamigin; Goetic demon by day of the first decanate of Taurus. The demon's name suggest faulty vision or reason (Heh), stabilized into reversal of dependence on universal life (reality) (Mem), willing itself (Yod) into patterns of memory (Gimel) which link it to union (Yod) with cycles of reproductive error (Vav). The first decanate of Taurus, ruled by Venus has the qualities of devoted, artistic, sympathetic. The influence of the demon suggest conscious imbalance resulting in the opposite negative qualities. This decanate is also attributed to the 5 of Pentacles, or Geburah, sphere of Mars, in Assiah, the material world. When negatively aspected, as here, it can mean toil unrewared; loss of money; poverty; and trouble through lack of imagination and foresight. see [766](766).

---

### [Adam Belial](/keys/ADM.BLIAL) - אדם בליאל
> Arch-demon corresponding (according to Waite) to Chokmah, Belial means unprofitable or wicked; Adam means man or humanity; thus "wicked Man" or "wicked men". see [73](73), [45](45).

> In apocalyptic literature Belial (under the form of Beliar) is personified and identified with the Genius of all evil, Satan, and was formerly of the Order of Virtues, as well as having been created (as Belair) next after Lucifer. Waite says: *"When the Adam and Eve of Genesis partook of the forbidden fruit, their fall confounded the good with the evil cortices, that of Adam with the male shells of Samel or Adam Belial...the nations of the world can be destined only to return whence they came, and Adam Belial is obviously not under the law... to put the position tersely, the souls of the Israelites were distributed in the members of the protoplastic Adam, regarded in his mystical extension through the four worlds, and the souls of the gentiles [i.e. "Nations", גוים, #[59](59)] in the members of Adam Belial, belonging to the aversetres."* [The Holy Kabbalah, p. 419]

---

### [Cham](/keys/ChOM) - חעם
> 38th Shemhamphorash. short form, associated with the 2nd quinance of Aquarius. Also written חעמיה [Hamiah](/keys/ChOMIH), *"God, the hope of all the children of the earth,"* angel of the 5 of Swords (Geburah of Yetzirah). see [132](132), [678](678).

---

### [Zimimay](/keys/ZIMIMAI) - זימימאי
> Demon king of the north (Goetia), according to Godwin. Davidson gives: *"Zimimar (Zimmar) 'The Lordly monarch of the North', a title given him by Shakespeare."* [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p. 328]

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [riza](/greek?word=riza) (Gr) - ριζα
> a root; source from which it comes.

---

### [spirituale](/latin?word=spirituale) (Lt)
> spiritual. see [200](200).

---

### [lapis magnus](/latin?word=lapis+magnus) (Lt)
> great stone; i.e. the stone of the wise, or philosopher's stone. see [51](51) (Latin), [52](52) (Hebrew).

---

### English Gematria:

- [Poriphiry](/english?word=Poriphiry) *([Fama p.2](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/2))* Also spelled [Porphyry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Porphyry_(philosopher))

---

### See Also:

- [10](10)
- [1](1)

