## 119 - One Hundred Nineteen
> (7x17) The vertical axis of a completed pyramid like that of the seal of the U.S.

 See [Psalm 119](http://biblehub.com/kjv/psalms/119.htm): *"Your Word is a Lamp to my Feet."*

---

### [Hu yebeneh li](/keys/HVA.IBNH.LI) - הוא יבנה לי
> He shall build me a house. [1 Chron. 17:12](http://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/17-22.htm): *"He shall build me a house and I will establish his throne forever."* see [12](12), [67](67), [40](40), [107](107), [1244](1244), [1363](1363).

---

### [veyahbeq](/keys/VIABQ) - ויאבק
> and wrestled [Genesis 32:24](http://biblehub.com/genesis/32-24.htm). see [113](113).

---

### [ta'am](/keys/TOM) - טעם
> taste, flavor; sense, discretion, discernment; decree, command; reason, cause, intonation, accent. [Psalm 119:66](http://biblehub.com/psalms/119-66.htm): "good discernment".

---

### [dimaah](/keys/DMOH) - דמעה
> Tear. weeping.

---

### [kemo ahben](/keys/KMV.ABN) - כמו אבן
> like a stone [Exodus 11:5](http://biblehub.com/exodus/11-5.htm). Refers to pharaoh's chariots and men sinking in the read sea "like a stone." *"The deeps covered them and they went down into its depths like a stone."* see [66](66), [53](53).

---

### [pegeul](/keys/PGVL) - פגול
> "abominable", a foul thing, refuse, an abominated sacrifice. What is rejected in the building of the stone are those elements and negative patterns in personality which are obstructing the free flow of light.

---

### [ehben bochan](/keys/ABN.BVChN) - אבן בוחן
> "a tried stone", (variant spelling); Lydian stone; examined or inspector stone. see [113](113). The "stone"is consciousness.

---

### [Beelzebub](/keys/BOLZBVB) - בעלזבוב
> "Lord of the Flies" [2 Kings 1:3](http://biblehub.com/2_kings/1-3.htm). Also בעל זבוב "Archfiend" [Hebrew Lexicon].

> Also: "Lord of Chaos." [Gnostic writing of Valentinus]. Chief of the 9 evil hierarchies of the underworld (Qlippoth). From זבוב "to fly". [2 Kings 1:3](http://biblehub.com/2_kings/1-3.htm): *"But the angel of the Lord said unto Elijah the Tishbite, arise, go up to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria, and say unto them, is it not because there is not a God in Israel, that ye go to enquire of Beelzebub the God of Ekron?"*

> Godwin gives: Archdemon corresponding to Chokmah. Davidson says he was originally a Syrian God: *"In [Matthew 10:25](http://biblehub.com/matthew/10-25.htm), [Mark 3:22](http://biblehub.com/mark/3-22.htm), and [Luke 11:15](http://biblehub.com/luke/11-15.htm), Beelzebub is chief of the demons, 'prince of the devils' (as in [Matthew 12:24](http://biblehub.com/matthew/12-24.htm)), but he is to be distinguished from Satan (just as he is in all magic, medieval or otherwise)... another of his titles was 'Lord of Chaos', as given in the gnostic writings of Valentinus... in the Gospel of Nicodemus, Christ, during his 3 days in hell, gives Beelzebub dominion over the underworld in gratitude for permitting him (Christ) over Satan's objections, to take Adam and the other 'saints in prison' to heaven."* [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p. 72]

---

### [Khalaph](/keys/ChALP) - חאלף
> Night demon of 2nd decanate of Leo. This decanate is ruled by Jupiter and suggest subconscious imbalance, resulting in unkindness, intolerance and boorishness. Note that it contains the same letters as ChLP to change, renew, with the addition of Aleph (Uranus) between Cheth (Cancer, Moon) and Lamed (Libra, Venus). This imbalance is seen to be the result of the higher octave of Mercury, or spirit. see [118](118).

---

### [Ben-oni](/keys/BN-AVNI) - בן־אוני
> name given to [Benjamin](162) ("son of the right hand") by his mother. Inman says it may mean literally 'son of Anu', or 'son of my Un' [Genesis 35:18](http://biblehub.com/genesis/35-18.htm): *"And it came to pass, as her soul was in departing (for she died) that she called his name Benoni: but her father called him Benjamin."* בן־אוני [Ben-oni](/keys/BN-AVNI) = [52](52)+[67](67), so that it = [Ben-Binah](/keys/BN BINH) בן־בינה ([67](67)), and thus suggests (BN) ThPARTh and BINH (=AIMA). see [162](162), [52](52), [67](67), [1081](1081).

---

## Greek/Latin

---

### [fraternitas](/latin?word=fraternitas) (Lt)
> fraternity, brotherhood (see [421](421) Latin).

---

### [in cruce rosea](/latin?word=in+cruce+rosea) (Lt)
> in the rosy cross [Secret Symbols page 35]. All brothers in the rosy cross form the fraternity of spirit. see [224](224), [88](88).

---

### [natura humana](/latin?word=natura+humana) (Lt)
> Human nature. The first word is [67](67), corresponding to [Binah], and the second is [52](52), the value of [Ben], the son.

---

### [verbum vita](/latin?word=verbum+vita) (Lt)
> living word [Secret Symbols page 31]. The son, Tiphareth, is the Living Word, or the Logos.

---

### [spiritus](/latin?word=spiritus) (Lt)
> spirit. The son is also the spirit (RVCh) Ruach, the human spirit links Neshamah (the Soul of God, seat in Binah) to Nefesh (the Animal Soul, attributed to Yesod). see [132](132), [175](175), [214](214), [496](496), [243](243), [60](60), [64](64) Latin, [113](113).

---

### [spiraculum](/latin?word=spiraculum) (Lt)
> A breathing hole, a vent. The triad or triangle (equilateral) is like a vent or spiracle, through which the influence of the Life-breath enters and leaves the field of manifestation. In Secret Symbols, the word is connected with both Life and Death (see [251](251) Latin).

---

### [Saturnus](/latin?word=Saturnus) (Lt)
> Saturn. Builder of form; sphere of Binah, the cosmic mother; one of the seven planetary centers. see [713](713), [400](400), [406](406), [67](67).

---

### [sperma mundi](/latin?word=sperma+mundi) (Lt)
> seed of the world. see [64](64) (Latin). *"The Philosopher's stone is called the most ancient, secret or unknown, natural, incomprehensible, heavenly, blessed, sacred stone of the sages... In the writings of the sages we may also find it spoken of as the catholic magnesia (#129), or the seed of the world, and under many other names and titles of a like nature, which we may best sum up and comprehend in the perfect number of one thousand."* [Hermetic Museum I, p.97] see [1000](1000).

---

### [concupiscere](/latin?word=concupiscere) (Lt)
[lust after](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=concupiscere): desire eagerly/ardently; covet, long for; aim at; conceive a strong desire for;

> *"Our heart is also reformed in like manner, when in everything... (3) we desire only Him--**concupiscere.**"* {[Karl von Eckartshausen, The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary, letter VI](cloud-upon-sanctuary)}

---

### [firmamentum](/latin?word=firmamentum) (Lt)
"a strengthening support"

## See Also:

- [11](11)
- [2](2)