## 120 - One Hundred Twenty
> (3x5x8). Σ[15](15) = 120. The number of years which elapsed from the "death" of C.R. until his sepulcher was opened. The perfected consciousness of an illuminated man. [Genesis 6:3](http://biblehub.com/genesis/6-3.htm).

> 120 is the symbolic number of the perfected life of man. *"This number is contained in the scripture with the seventy years of the ordinary span of life, mentioned by the Psalmist. The difference between 120 and 70 is 50, so that we may say the magical age of 120 years is attained by adding 50 to the 70 years of ordinary human experience. The number 50 and 70 are, of course, symbolic. [50](50) is the number of the letter Nun, symbol of the occult power, which, when sublimated, leads to illumination. [70](70) is the number of the letter Ayin, whose name means: 1. the human eye, as organ of vision; and 2. "outward appearances", or the superficial aspect of things*

> *"...now 120 is the theosophic extension, or secret number, of 15 -- the sum of the numbers from 1 to 15 inclusive. In relation to the 15th key, therefore, it represents the full expression, or complete manifestation, of the power represented by the devil. So long as we are outsiders, what stands in our way looks like the devil. But when we overcome our terrors, [Key 15](15) represents the great magical agent, the astral light, truly called Lucifer, the son of the morning. This is our adversary, because it is the immediate cause of the manifold appearances which delude the ignorant. But when we strengthen our vision with force borrowed from the eagle, we are able to see through those very same illusion, and then we are no longer deluded by them."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p. 110, 111]. see [50](50), [70](70).

[Deuteronomy 34:7](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/34-7.htm): *"And Moses was an hundred and twenty years old when he died: his eye was not dim, nor his natural force abated."*

---

### [Letter name Samekh](/keys/SMK) - סמך
> tent-peg, prop, support. As a verb: to prop, to bear up, to establish, hold or sustain, invigorate. The [25th Path](25) of Wisdom, linking Tiphareth and Yesod of the Tree. Representing the purgation and perfection of personality, to become a pure and holy habitation (temple) for the One Spirit. The Path of Nun and Samekh are essentially the same.

> also: סמך, to lay (hands); to pack, make close, block. *"...the path of Samekh above Yesod is doubly related to Jupiter, as you may see from the letters Samek and Kaph. But the 'matter of the word' is designated by Mem between Samekh and Kaph, and this water will not wet the hand; it will not, that is, wet the Yod. For the 'hand' is none else but Yod."* [10th Communication]. see [80](80), [536](536), [800](800), [162](162), [186](186), [600](600), [1343](1343).

The stream of attention given to our problems {[The Devil](/keys/O)} reveals the errors which we must eliminate {[Death](/keys/N)} in order to achieve liberation {[Temperance](/keys/S)}. What remains is Truth, and this is indeed the tent-pole (סמך) from which we erect our shelter from Chaos.

---

### [damyoniy](/keys/DMIVNI) - דמיוני
> Resemblance or Imaginative. [The 24th Path](24). The first two letters of the name of the path are Daleth and Mem, forming דמ, [dam](/keys/DM), the Hebrew noun for blood. The rest of the word, יוני, [yoni](/keys/IVNI), is numerically equivalent to a Hebrew noun חביון, [chebyown](/keys/ChBIVN), meaning "hidden treasure." [Habakkuk 3:4](http://biblehub.com/text/habakkuk/3-4.htm). This is a hint that the secret of the 24th path has something to do with valuable occult properties of blood. see [470](470), [44](44), [68](68).

---

### [moade](/keys/MVOD) - מועד
> the time of the decree, appointed time; festival (half-holiday, intermediate days of Passover and feast of tabernacles); appointed meeting, assembly; appointed place; temple, synagogue; appointed sign, signal; festival sacrifice. Refers to the time of liberation of Adam, by the Life-power. With different vowel points, Muahd: forewarned, an attested danger. see [106](106), [756](756), [372](372), [50](50). [K.D.L.C.K. p. 517]

> see [Exodus 34:18](http://biblehub.com/exodus/34-18.htm), [1 Samuel 9:24](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/9-24.htm), [Daniel 12:7](http://biblehub.com/daniel/12-7.htm)

---

### [On](/keys/ON) - ען
> a name of God. It is the city of Heliopolis in Egypt, or Beth-Shemesh, the House of the Sun. see [581](581), [1052](1052).

---

### [mawkheen](/keys/MKIN) - מכין
> strengthening, renewal. *"The fullness of those days shall see the strengthening of thy weakness, O Israel."* [Book of Tokens]. see [60](60), [310](310).

---

### [yenin](/keys/ININ) - ינין
> "shall be continued." see [770](770).

---

### [miklahl](/keys/MKLL) - מכלל
> perfection. [Psalm 50:2](http://biblehub.com/psalms/50-2.htm): *"Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God shines forth."*

---

### [yimini](/keys/IMINI) - ימיני
> my right hand. [Psalm 110:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/110-1.htm): *"The LORD says to my Lord: 'Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies your footstool.'"*

---

### [mawsawk](/keys/MSK) - מסך
> a covering, a curtain, a hanging.

---

### [mawsak](/keys/MSK) - מסך
> mix drink. [Psalm 75:8](http://biblehub.com/psalms/75-8.htm): *"For in the hand of the LORD there is a cup, and the wine is red; it is full of mixture; and he poureth out of the same: but the dregs thereof, all the wicked of the earth shall wring them out, and drink them."*

> Paul Case: Water is invariably the basis of the work. This mixture (מסך) is the extension of [15](15) [or 120], that is of יה, [Jah](/keys/IH). 15 is also the value of איד, which means 'steam, vapor', and also 'fate'. 15 is also the number of אביב, (more commonly simply אב = Father) the month of the Exodus and the Passover, corresponding to the sign Leo, where Sol has his abode. 15 again, is the extension of 5, which also has a word meaning vapor, אד. Thus the sequence 5-15-120 suggest Kabbalistically the gradual condensation of vapor into water, which is the support and basis of all material manifestation.

> *"Observe also that 120 is 30+40+50 = למן [leman](/keys/LMN) 'for measure' = נמל [namal](/keys/NML), to eat off, to cut off; and that 30-40-50 is a Pythagorean triangle with each of its units divided into 10 parts, or a cube with each edge in 10 parts."* [Paul Case on D.D. Bryant, IX]. see [15](15), [5](5).

---

### [leman](/keys/LMN) - למן
> for the measure or "hanna". see [90](90).

---

### [namal](/keys/NML) - נמל
> to eat off, to cut off. see note (mawsak).

---

### [emdu](/keys/OMDV) - עמדו
> Stand ye. [Jeremiah 6:16](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/6-16.htm). *"Thus saith the Lord, **stand ye** in the ways, and see, and ask for the old paths, where is the good way, and walk therein, and ye shall find rest for your souls. But they said, we will not walk therein."* see [3](3), [12](12), [21](21), [30](30), [39](39), [48](48), [57](57), [66](66), [75](75), [84](84), [93](93), [102](102), [111](111), [138](138), [140](140), [260](260).

---

### [ammiwd, ammuwd](/keys/OMVD) - עמדו
> Pillar, column, that which is stretched out, erect; stand, platform; cylinder around which scroll is rolled. [Exodus 13:21](http://biblehub.com/exodus/13-21.htm): *"And the Lord went before them by day in a **pillar** of cloud, to lead them the way; and by night in a pillar of fire, to give them light; to go by day and night."* see [170](170), [290](290), [421](421), [2521](2521), [2580](2580), [60](60), [310](310).

---

### [kol, kel, keal](/keys/KOL) - כעל
> according to. [Isaiah 59:18](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/59-18.htm): *"According to their deeds, according he will repay"* and [Isaiah 63:7](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/63-7.htm): *"According to all that the Lord hath bestowed on us."*

> From the root על, that which is high, eminent, superior. Paul Case adds the meaning of master: *"Referring to the Mastery which comes only as the result of putting things to the test of experimental verification."* [Gematria of the Letternames]

---

### [Letz](/keys/LTz) - לץ
> "scorner" [Proverbs 9:7](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/9-7.htm): *"He who reproves a scorner gets same to himself: and he who rebukes a wicked man gets himself a blot."* see [930](930).

---

### [Ogiel](/keys/OVGIAL) - עוגיאל
> "The Hinderers"; Qlippoth of Chokmah, according to Godwin.

---

### [kesil](/keys/KSIL) - כסיל
> thick one, hence fool. (suggesting [Tarot Key 0](/keys/A), related to Aleph and spirit). also: strong one, giant, hence the constellation Orion (conceived of by the ancients as a giant bound upon the sky.) In [Psalm 92:6](http://biblehub.com/psalms/92-6.htm): *"The senseless man does not know; neither does a fool understand."* And in [Job 38:31](http://biblehub.com/job/38-31.htm): *"Can you bind the beautiful Pleiades? Can you loose the cords of Orion?"* (i.e. the Giant).

---

### [musadi](/keys/MVSDI) - מוסדי
> foundation, basis. *"The whole purport of this is to be seen in the symbolism of the [14th Key](14), which shows the mixing of the fundamental waters at the beginning of the Long path which leads to the crown. Observe too that 120 = 3x40, and that it may therefore by represented by a triple manifestation of the letter Mem, whose value is 40. That is to say, Mem in the three worlds below Atziluth produces 120, here we are very close to the alchemical secret."* [Paul Case of D.D. Bryant's Philosopher's Stone, IX] see [40](40).

---

### [melim](/keys/MLIM) - מלים
> words, sayings, decrees, prophetic.

---

### [pum](/keys/PM) - פם
> mouth, tongue. *"By פם is understood the foundation -- namely the letter Yod joined with his bride; the speech is the marital influx flowing forth from the bride; for the queen is called the word; but the great things are the inferiors of all grades produced. This tongue (פה) is hidden between Yod and Heh. For father and mother are perpetually conjoined in יסוד, [Yesod](/keys/ISVD), but concealed under the mystery of דעת, [Da'ath](/keys/DOTh)."* [Book of Concealed Mystery 37:37]. see [80](80), [474](474), [680](680).

> [Daniel 7:8](http://biblehub.com/daniel/7-8.htm): *"I considered the horns, and, behold, there came up among them another little horn, before whom there were three of the first horns plucked up by the roots [of the beast with iron teeth]; and behold, in this horn were eyes like the eyes of man, and a mouth speaking great things."*

---

### [tzel](/keys/TzL) - צל
> shadow, shade; shelter, protection. [Psalm 191:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/191-1.htm): "The shadow of the almighty." *"He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most high shall abide under the shadow of the almighty."*

---

### [pelee](/keys/PLI) - פלי
> secret, wonderful. [Judges 13:18](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"And the angel of the Lord said unto him, why asketh thou thus after my name, seeing it is secret?"*

---

### [hasseneh](/keys/HSNH) - הסנה
> "the thorn-bush". Refers to the burning bush-the image of God who "spoke" to Moses. [Exodus 3:2](http://biblehub.com/exodus/3-2.htm): *"And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him is a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush: and he looked, and, behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed."* see [586](586).

---

### [lawmem](/keys/LMIM) - למים
> "and the waters." [Genesis 1:6](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-6.htm). Refers to the firmament which God placed in the "waters" of creation.

---

### [saws](/keys/SS) - סס
> spice; dissolved power; medicine, poison. also moth (Lexicon).

---

### [keph, kaph](/keys/KP.K) - כף כ
> see S.D. volume 16.

---

## Greek/Latin

---

### [clavis artis](/latin?word=clavis+artis) (Lt)
> key of art.

---

### [In principio](/latin?word=In+principio) (Lt)
> In the beginning, principle. The Latin translation of the Hebrew בראשית, [Bereshith](/keys/BRAShITh), the first word in Genesis. It applies particularly to the construction of the equilateral triangle, from which the measure of a heptagon is derived, in as much as the triangle comes first. It may with equal propriety be translated "in principle"; and this also is a correct rendering of בראשית, [Bereshith](/keys/BRAShITh). Also [John 1:1](http://biblehub.com/john/1-1.htm) in the Latin of the Vulgate. Relates also to the reality that "beginning and end are One." The process which begins from the higher unity of life ends there as well.

---

### [medicina catholica](/latin?word=medicina+catholica) (Lt)
> Universal medicine. *"Moreover, it [the treasure] is the universal medicine described by Solomon; the same also is taken form the earth, and honored by the wise."*

> *"Honor a physician with the honor due unto him for the uses which ye may have of him: for the Lord hath created him. From the most high cometh healing and he shall receive honor of the king. The skill of the physician shall lift up his head: and in the sight of great men he shall be in admiration. The Lord what created medicines out of the earth; and he that is wise will to abhor them. Was not the water made sweet with wood, that the virtue thereof might be known? And he hath given him skill, that he might honor in his marvelous words. Of such doth the apothecary had a confection; and of his words there is no end; and from him is peace over all the earth. My son, in the sickness be not negligent: but pray unto the Lord, and he will make thee whole. Leave off from sin, and order thine hands aright, and cleanse thy heart form all wickedness. Give a sweet savor, and a memorial of fine flour; and make a fat offering, as not being. Then give place to the physician, for the Lord hath created him: let him not go from thee, for thou hast need of him. There is a time when in their hands there is good success. For they also shall pray unto the Lord, that he would prosper that which they give for ease and remedy to prolong life..."* [Hermetic Museum I, p.132]

> A.E. Waite writes: *"The fire of divine love prepared the heavenly Quintessence and eternal tincture of souls from the cosmic cross of the four elements, and... by the **medicina catholica** the whole human race is liberated from the yoke of hell, delivered from death and transmuted by spiritual regeneration, so that the soul is clothed with the splendor of everlasting being... This is the body of the radiant or resurrection body of adeptship..."* [Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross, p. 459]

---

### [pax profunda](/latin?word=pax+profunda) (Lt)
> Peace profound. An ancient Rosicrucian salutation.

---

### [fons naturae](/latin?word=fons+naturae) (Lt)
> fountain of nature. Concerning the philosopher's stone, *"it is a pearl without price, and, indeed, the earthly antitype of Christ, the heavenly corner stone. As Christ was despised and rejected in this world by the people of the Jews, and nevertheless was more precious than heaven and earth; so it is with our stone among earthly things: for the spring where it is found is called the fount of nature. For heaven as though nature all growing things are generated by the heat of the sun, so also through nature is our stone born after that it has generated."* [Hermetic Museum I, p.181]

> "In the fountain of nature our substance is found, and nowhere else upon earth; and our stone is fire (#[216](216), Latin), and has been generated in fire, without, however, being consumed by fire." [Hermetic Museum I, p.213]

---

### [homo sapiens](/latin?word=homo+sapiens) (Lt)
"[Wise Man](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homo_sapiens)".

---

### [non omnibus](/latin?word=non+omnibus) (Lt)
> *Not for All. Motto of the gate of the inner wall in an [illustration](https://i.pinimg.com/originals/8d/51/a9/8d51a9616fa3fb820ff8f42f1f78e33e.jpg) of Khunrath's Amphitheatrum Chemicum (1609). The inner wall summarizes the alchemical operations; the motto intimates that entrance into the central mystery is not for everyone. In the same illustration appears the word אבן enclosed in a radiant triangle, and borne by a dragon which is on the top of a mountain. The mountain is in the middle or center of an enclosure, surrounded by the 7-sided wall in whose corners are written: dissolution, purification, Azoth pondus, solution, multiplication, fermentation, projection. Another wall surrounds this inner wall in the form of a 7 pointed star, composed of 14 equal lines, its gate is flanked by 2 triangular pyramids, or obelisks. Over one is the sun and this obelisk is named Faith. Over the other is the moon, and this figure is name Taciturnity, or Silence. Between the pillars, in the gate is a figure bearing the caduceus of Hermes or Mercury, standing behind a table on which is written "good works." Below is the motto: "The ignorant deride what the wise extol and admire." Thus there is in the diagram the same association between a 7-sided figure and a stone which occurs in the Fama.* [True and Invisible page 177-178]. see [53](53).

---

### See Also:

- [3](3)