## 121 - One Hundred Twenty-One
> (11x11)

### [Cassiel](/keys/KSIAL) - כסיאל
> Planetary angel of Saturn (Binah).

### [Nineveh](/keys/NINVH) - נינוה
> Nineveh. [Jonah 3:3](http://biblehub.com/jonah/3-3.htm), [Luke 11:32](http://biblehub.com/luke/11-32.htm). capital of Assyria, where Jonah was sent by God. Combines the letters of נון [Nun](/keys/NVN), and יה [Jah](/keys/IH). see [50](50), [15](15).

### [elaylayim](/keys/ALILIM) - אלילים
> vain idols, false gods. Those contacted by astral visions, where personal subconsciousness colors the true images, and becomes a channel for negative forces.

### [apham](/keys/APM) - אפם
> an end, extremity, fool for God; to cease, disappear.

### [ha-galgalim](/keys/HGLGLIM) - הגלגלים
> of whirling motions.

### [azal](/keys/ATzL) - אצל
> emanated from.

### [awtzal](/keys/ATzL) - אצל
> to lay aside, set apart; to reserve, withhold, withdraw; to influence. The "dew of heaven" is reserved for the enlightened; its influence is the measure of truth. also: אצל by the side of, near, nearby, beside. Its presence in "nearer than hands or feet", for it dwells within.

### [malaim](/keys/MLAIM) - מלאים
> consecration.

### [ain khem](/keys/AIN-KM) - 
> you do not.

### [chezka](/keys/ChZQV) - 
> be strong.

### [khozeh dayiy layleyah](/keys/ChVZH.DI.LILIA) - 
> nocturnal vision. contact with this "dew" brings inner vision, which begins as the recollection and interpretation of dreams.

### [aenawkim](/keys/ANKIM) - 
> perpendiculars. exactly upright, or vertical, pointing to the zenith; rectitude. Suggest the path of Gimel which extends vertically from Tiphareth to Kether. Gimel is connected with the Moon and with subconscious memory, activated during the dream state.

### [Okael](/keys/OKAL) - 
> Lesser angle governing triplicity by night of Cancer. This sign is ruled by the Moon.

### [Kael](/keys/KOAL) - 
> According to Mathers, in [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 18] the angel governing the 4th astrological house of Cancer.

### [matbea](/keys/MTBO) - 
> Coin [Godwin]. Corresponds to the suit of Pentacles in the Tarot minor arcania, to the plane of Assiah, the material world, to the 2nd Heh of IHVH and to the 4th occult admonition-to be silent. This word does not occur in scripture or in the Hebrew Lexicon. Of its first 2 letters Fabre D'Olivet comments: "MTh. this root, composed of the sign of exterior and passive action, united to that of resistance, develops all ideas of motion or emotion given to something; vacillation; stirring; a communicated movement especially downward. The Arabic [word] has the same sense. As verb, this root indicates the action of drawing, stretching, extending by pulling. MVTh. Action of moving, rousing, budging, stirring, agitating; going, following, happening, arriving, etc. [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 389] And of the last two letters: BO. every idea of precipitate, harsh, inordinate movement. It is the root BA, in which the mother vowel has degenerated toward the material sense. The Arabic [word] is an onomatopoetic root which expresses the bleating, bellowing of animals. BOH. An anxious inquiring, a search; a turgescence, a boiling; action of boiling, etc. [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 306-307]

## Latin

### [revivicatio](/latin?word=) (Lt)
> reborn, revivified. Part of a phrase in Secret symbols. see 717.

### [perpetuum](/latin?word=) (Lt)
> perpetual. The power of perpetuation corresponds intimately with the function of imagination assigned to Nun. see 120, 250, 50, 700.

### [divine natura](/latin?word=) (Lt)
> divine nature. The nature of divinity is to perpetuate itself. see 54, 67, 496 Latin.

### [Non Omn Ibus](/latin?word=) (Lt)
> Not for All. Motto of the gate of the inner wall in an illustration of Khunrath's Amphitheatrum Chemicum (1609). The inner wall summarizes the alchemical operations; the motto intimates that entrance into the central mystery is not for everyone. In the same illustration appears the word ABN enclosed in a radiant triangle, and borne by a dragon which is on the top of a mountain. The mountain is in the middle or center of an enclosure, surrounded by the 7-sided wall in whose corners are written: dissolution, purification, Azoth pondus, solution, multiplication, fermentation, projection. Another wall surrounds this inner wall in the form of a 7 pointed star, composed of 14 equal lines, its gate is flanked by 2 triangular pyramids, or obelisks. Over one is the sun and this obelisk is named Faith. Over the other is the mon, and this figure is name Taciturnity, or Silence. Between the pillars, in the gate is a figure bearing the caduceus of Hermes or Mercury, standing behind a table on which is written "good works." Below is the motto: "The ignorant deride what the wise extol and admire." Thus there is in the diagram the same association between a 7-sided figure and a stone which occurs in the Fama. [true and Invisible page 177-178]. see 53.

### [intuitus](/latin?word=intuitus) (Lt)
Looked, admired, gazed, considered, regarded.

> *The human understanding is divided into seven powers; the first is that of looking at objects outside ourselves--**intuitus**.*

> *Our understanding is formed after that of Jesus Christ: (1) When we have Him in view in everything, so that He becomes the only motive point of all our actions--**intuitus**.* {[Karl von Eckartshausen, The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary, Letter VI](cloud-upon-sanctuary)}

### See Also:

- [4](4)