## 122 - One Hundred Twenty-Two
> (2x61)

### [Chasidim](/keys/ChSDIM) - חסדים
> merciful or beneficent ones, the compassionate. Rosicrucian grade of Exempt Adept. The Masters of Compassion are those who are wholly devoted to realizing their identity with the One Reality. Chasidim are persons who partake of the quality of Jupiter, Chesed, and enjoy continual receptivity to the Hierophant via the [16th path](16) of [Vav](/keys/V). For them the fact of eternal being is a direct perception so that they are able to say: "Before Abraham was, I AM". see [508](508), [72](72), [48](48), [528](528).

### [el ha-Elohim](/keys/AL.HALHIM) - אל האלהים
> "unto the Elohim". [Exodus 19:3](http://biblehub.com/exodus/19-3.htm): *"And Moses went up unto God [the Elohim, on Mr. Sinai] where יהוה called unto him out of the mountain saying..."* {אל pointed with a seghol means "to, unto, at, by." So the name means "unto the Elohim (the seven spirits, or chakras). [122](122) reduces to [5](5), the number of [Heh](/keys/H), and since it refers to the Elohim, the Heh is the first Heh in יהוה and refers to Binah} see [682](682).

### [tzawlahb](/keys/TzLB) - צלב
> to hang, crucify, impale. This is spirit embodied in physical forms. Evolution sacrifices or crucifies the lower nature, to be reunited with God. This is accomplished through the power of meditation (Tzaddi) aided by the agency of balanced action (Lamed) and the transparency of self-conscious attention (Beth). also צלב (tzelakub) cross--the cross of the 4 elements: Fire, Water, Air, and Earth. It is equilibrated by the Quintessence.

### [maia maiya](/keys/MIIA.MIIA) - מייא מייא
> the glassy sea. A term used in alchemy; suggests the city of pure gold, like clear glass in [Revelation 18:21](http://biblehub.com/revelations/18-21.htm). Implies the illuminated consciousness--when receptivity to the intuitional level of Binah becomes as a "glassy sea" [Binah is the "Great Sea"]

### [ennusah](/keys/ANVSH) - אנוסה
> an assulted woman. Suggest failure to approach subconsciousness (the woman of [Key 2](2)) "suavely and with great ingenuity." Failure is the inevitable result.

### [enawb](/keys/ONB) - ענב
> grape. Suggests renewal (Ayin) through change (Nun) and self-conscious attention (Beth). see [133](133), [166](166), [44](44), [1431](1431) (Greek), [216](216), [1336](1336).

### [Asmodai](/keys/ASMVDAI) - אסמודאי
> Asmoday or Asmodeus; according to Godwin, the arch-demon corresponding to Geburah or Netzach; Goetic demon by day of the 2nd decanate of Aquarius. This decanate is ruled by Mercury and has the qualities: independent, cultured, sociable. The influence of the demon suggests conscious imbalance, resulting in negative aspects of these qualities. In the Tarot minor arcana this decanate is assigned to the 6 of Swords. This represents the operation of Tiphareth, sphere of the Sun, in Yetzirah, the formative world. When ill-aspected, as here, this may indicate sudden changes; circumstances dominating; danger of being overconfident or conceited; too much effort expended from small results. The remedy is to learn that the image-making power of Tiphareth creates the essence of freedom and joy.

> Davidson writes of Asmoday (Ashmeday, Asmodius, Sydoney) That he is 'a fallen angel' who has wings and flies about, and has knowledge of the future, according to Budge, [Amulets and Talismans, p. 377]

> Asmoday teaches mathematics and can make men invisible. He 'giveth the ring of virtues' and governs 72 legions of infernal spirits. When invoked, he manifests as a creature with 3 heads (bull, ram, man)... a variant spelling of the name is Hasmoday, who is one of the demons of the moon.

> Of Asmodeus he writes: *"('Creature of Judgement')--the name is derived from Ashma Daeva... Asmodeus is a Persian rather than a Jewish devil; however incorporated into Jewish lore, he is there regarded as an evil spirit. According to Furlong, Encyclopedia of Religions, Asmodeus is 'the Talmudic Ashmedai, a demon borrowed from the Zend Aeshmadeva', a 'raging fiend' [The Book of Tobit 3:8](http://biblehub.com/tobit/3-8.htm). It was Ashmadia (Ashmedai). says Furlong, who made Noah drunk, and who, in Tobit, slew the 7 bridegrooms of the young Sarah, and who overcome by the angel Raphael, was finally 'banished to upper Egypt.' In Demonology Asmodeus in Hell is controller of all gaming houses. Wierus the demonographer says Asmodeus must be invoked only when the invokant is bare headed, otherwise the demon will trick him... In The Book of the Sacred Magic of Abramelin the Mage, we find this report: 'some rabbins say that Asmodeus was the child of incest of Tubal-Cain and his sister Naamah; others say he was the demon of impurity.' Jewish lore charges Asmodeus with being the father-in-law of of the demon Bar Shalmon... in Solomonic legends, Asmodeus זלפהalso goes by the name of Saturn, marcolf or Morolf. He is credited with being the inventor of carousels, music, dancing, drama, 'and all the new French fashions.'"* [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p. 57-58]

### [Zilpah](/keys/ZLPH) - זלפה
> Leah's hand-maden; mother of Gad and Asher. see [7](7), [501](501). [Genesis 29:24](http://biblehub.com/genesis/29-24.htm): *"And Laban gave his servant girl Zilpah to his daughter as her maid servant."*

### [galgulim](/keys/GLGVLIM) - גלגולים
> revolutiones (Anamarum); rotations or wheeling (of spirit). given by Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K p. 236], where he cites the Zohar.

## Greek/Latin:

### [lux interna](/latin?word=lux+interna) (Lt)
> inner light. Refers to Kether. see [620](620), [397](397), [49](49), [73](73) Latin.

### [sepulchrum](/latin?word=sepulchrum) (Lt)
> sepulchre; tomb, resting-place. The inner-light within physical form. Part of a phrase found written on the altar of the vault of C.R. see [475](475), [87](87) Latin.

### [flos salis albi](/latin?word=flos+salis+albi) (Lt)
> flower of white salt. Atwood writes: *"This same, the Arabians call flos salis albi -- the flower of the white salt, and thus the substant hypostasis is said very truly to be designated; and this is the white sand, quellum, which Van Helmont speaks of as manifesting itself forth in a vivid vital soil, which spade or mattock never pierced. This is the true magical earth wherein is the recreative fire, even that 'land of Havilah, where good gold is'; and this fire binds the parts there of spontaneously to himself, coagulates them, and stops their flux; and this salt is the water that wets not the hands; and that identical magnesia that was exhibited in the mysteries."* [Suggestive Inquiry into Alchemy, p. 328]

### See Also:

- [5](5)