## 124 - One Hundred Twenty-Four
> (4x31). Length of the 4 sloping lines in a structure required to complete the unfinished pyramid on the reverse of the Great Seal of U.S.

---

### [Jehovah hua Elohim](/keys/IHVH.HVA.ALHIM) - יהוה הוא אלהים
> Jehovah (The Lord), He is God. see [129](129).

---

### [ayden](/keys/ODN) - עדן
> Eden, delight, pleasure. A noun meaning: time. The purpose of human life is to enjoy a "good time." The secret of happiness is in the honest development of our own gifts. We are given the seeds of mental imagery. It is up to us to develop them so that Adam can return to the Garden of Eden. see [גן703](703), [179](179), [129](129), [53](53).

> *"The Stone is the Garden, and the Garden is the place of delight. That is, אבן is גן, and גן is עדן, for the Stone is the union of the son with the Father, and since אבן and גן are both [53](53), the Stone is the Stone of Eden, as is the Garden. Now, Eden signifieth delight, or pleasure, and its number, being 124, is a fourfold [31](31). That is, אל multiplied by [4](4); and since 4 is [Daleth](/keys/D), this is the development of the power in Chesed to which אל referreth. And thus is it seen that the power of Daleth, which is the power of Nogah, is what multiplieth the strength of Chesed into delight. For again we say, the stone and the Garden are one, and as the Stone is the union of Chokmah and Tiphareth, so also is the Garden the same union; and from union cometh delight. Never is there delight in separateness. Only when Father and Son are conjoined is there delight.*

> *Now, of this conjunction is גן the sign, because Gimel is the Uniting Intelligence, and Nun is the Imaginative Intelligence. Gimel uniteth Kether to Tiphareth, and Nun uniteth Tiphareth to Netzach. Gimel is the Moon. Nun is Mars in Scorpio. Add these in our Rota and they make 15, which is the glyph of the Renewing Intelligence that linketh Tiphareth to Hod.*

> *Now see. In Rota, [15](15) is the Adversary, but his number is the number of יה and the number also of הוד, and his path beareth the number of Tetragrammaton, which is the special name of Tiphareth. For he is the Life in Chokmah, and Adam, the King, in Tiphareth, and he is also the Splendor of the Mercurial Work.*

> *Thus, among the letters, that of the Renewing Intelligence beginneth עדן, to be followed by the letter of the Luminous Intelligence which linketh Chokmah to Binah, and "delight" (עדן) is completed by the letter Nun, which is also the last letter of אבן and of AIN; and thus is the special sign of the fifty gates of Binah. Now, Nun linketh the Sphere of the Sun to the Sphere of Venus, and thus in גן you may see the whirling motion of Kether descending to the Sphere of the Sun, and projecting itself into the Sphere of Venus.*

> *This, in the Rota is the garden of the Magician; and what is the soil of that garden if it be not identical with אבן, the Stone? And thus do you see that the Stone and the Garden are really אימא, the Mother, and, behold! אימא and בן are one in numeration."* [17th Communication] see [53](53), [52](52)

---

### [me-lamedi](/keys/MLMDI) - מלמדי
> "[than all] my teachers". [Psalm 119:99 Mem](http://biblehub.com/psalms/119-99.htm): *"I have more understanding than all my teacher: for thy testimonies are my meditation."* The root of the word is למד, [lamed](/keys/LMD). see [114](114).

---

### [be-kal lebakek](/keys/BKL-LBKK) - בכל־לבכך
> "with all thy heart". [Deuteronomy 30:2](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/30-2.htm): *"And shalt return unto the Lord thy God, and shalt obey his voice according to all that I command thee this day, thou and thy children, with all thy heart, and with all thy soul."* see [604](604), [1217](1217) (Greek), [32](32), [50](50).

---

### [Yohannan](/keys/IVChNN) - יוחנן
> John; "God the gracious", or "favored by יה Yah." The book of Revelations of John the divine links Eden with the Holy City or New Jerusalem. see [1119](1119) (Greek), [184](184).

---

### [leoitah](/keys/LOITH) - לעיטה
> stuffing with food, fattening.

---

### [khosan](/keys/ChVSN) - חוסן
> an oak; hardness. [Note חוס in the Lexicon: to pity, have pity. Perhaps relates to the Tree of Life planted in the Garden]

---

### [Oghiel, Gohgiel](/keys/OIGIAL) - עיגיאל
> The cortex of the Qlippoth of Chokmah.

---

### [pagiel](/keys/PGIAL) - פגיאל
> personal noun, masculine. "Accident of God". (From Latin ad + cadere, a be-falling). Angel petitioned in ritual prayer for fulfilment of the invocants desires.

---

## Latin

---

### [bene serviendo](/latin?word=bene+serviendo) (Lt)
> well in serving

---

### [Omnipotens](/latin?word=Omnipotens) (Lt)
> Almighty. see [80](80), [314](314) Latin.

---

### [Magnum Opus](/latin?word=Magnum+Opus) (Lt)
> Great Work. The Great Work. The alchemical operation which transmutes and regenerates the consciousness of man, transforming it into the "stone of the wise" Then are the Father (Chokmah) and Son (Tiphareth) said to be in "perfect union" at the inner center. "The objective (Of the Great Work) is the new birth as one of the sons of the doctrine. Meditation is the process. it is the physiological demonstration of a see-idea." Passion purified ([Key 8](8)) becomes compassion. see [61](61), [63](63), [73](73) Latin, [1081](1081), [187](187), [67](67).

> > *Now the alchemists say the Magnum Opus is "woman's work," and even our English speech uses the words "travail" and "labor" for birth. Many, coming this far, have strayed into the error that the Work has to do with genetics. It is not be eugenics that the "beyond man" comes. It is by a second birth within the heart.*

> > *The force that is used is, indeed, the Scorpio power; but in each human personality, whether its outer form be male or female, the new birth must take place, for flesh and blood cannot inherit the Kingdom, nor can it be transmitted by genetic processes to posterity. Thus never will the race evolve into the Fifth Kingdom, or superhumanity. Every person must transmute his own lead into gold. Evolution is a genetic process. The Magnum Opus goes beyond this, as you may see for yourselves, if you look up Magnum Opus in the Magical Language.*

> > *The Great Work transmutes the Microcosm into the Macrocosm. The Microcosm is illusory. It does not exist. Cosmic consciousness is truly Nirvana, or extinction. Thus the Great Work brings us to the place of God at the Center, that is, Tiphareth--in heart, not in head, as we told you before.*

> > *Thus in all alchemical transmutation the genetic process is inhibited, as one may see from all texts of alchemy, magic and yoga. There is no more oft-repeated statement than this. Thus all the Rosicrucians of the first circle were "bachelors of vowed virginity."*

> > *But here you must remember that the Sons of the Doctrine are never to be so much suspected as when they write, most openly, as one of them says. So remember also, that they said also that some of them had children to whom they could not pass on their mysteries. Evidently "vowed virginity" is not simply celibacy, or else priests and nuns would also be adepts, and they are not. What we want you to see and understand is, that if the Scorpio force is used for generation it cannot be used for the Great Work. Used it may be, in several ways; but whatever the special regimen, it always excludes physical procreation. In Tibet this is well-known, as it is in the Western School. The objective is the new birth as one of the Sons of the Doctrine. Meditation is the process. It is the physiological demonstration of a seed-idea, and the names אדם, בן, מלך are the statement of that idea. Become the true אדם, and you become the Son who is King, and all that the Father hath is yours. The illusion of the Microcosm is transmuted into the reality of the Macrocosm. One of the many becomes the All."* [13th Communication]

---

### See Also:

- [7](7)
