## 125 - One Hundred Twenty-Five
> (5x5x5)

---

### [yawnah](/keys/ONH) - ענה
> to answer, reply, respond; to be occupied, to busied with, to sing, speak tunefully; to be low, be humbled, be depressed, afflicted.

---

### [yennah](/keys/ONH) - ענה
> to humble, oppress, afflict; to violate (a women); to sing, sing in chorus; to detain, postpone; to cause privation, make to fast.

---

### [Danamel](/keys/DNMAL) - דנמאל
> Night demon of 2nd decanate of Pisces.

---

### [Menadel](/keys/MNDAL) - מנדאל
> "God Adorable". 36th Shemhamphorash, Angel of 4 of Pentacles. 176° to 180° Aphut. April 24, July 5, Sept 15, November 26, Febuary 6 [11:40 to 12:00 Noon]. For maintaining one's employment and conserving the means of existence which one possesses. [Psalm 26:8](http://biblehub.com/psalms/26-8.htm) *"Lord (IHVH) I love the habitation of thy house and the place where thy Glory Dwelleth."* (Against Calumnies and to deliver prisoners). Menadel helps exiles to return to their native land [One of the 72 angels of the Zodiac]. see [965](965), [1525](1525).

> Godwin gives: Mendel; angel of the 6th quinance (26°-30°) of Capricorn; angel by night of the 4 of Pentacles. This represents the operation of Jupiter or cosmic memory in the material world of action. Davidson adds that Menadel is "an angel of the Order of Powers, according to Ambelain". His corresponding angel, in the Cabala, is Aphut." [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p. 190]

---

### [IHVH Hu ha-Elohim](/keys/IHVH.AVA.HALHIM) - יהוה אוא האלהים
> The Lord He is God. יהוה refers to Tiphareth, the reflection of Kether, designated by אוא and האלהים refers to both Kether and Binah, because אלהים is the special divine name of Binah while the number of האלהים, [91](91) is the value of אמן, a title of Kether.

---

### [tzillah](/keys/TzLH) - צלה
> zillah, "Shadow", one of Lamech's wives and mother of Tubal-Cain and Na'amah.. [Genesis 4:19](http://biblehub.com/genesis/4-19.htm) *"And Lamech took unto him two wives: the name of the one was Adah, and the name of the other Zillah."* see [598](598), [165](165), [90](90), [122](122) (Asmodeus).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Mons Abiegnus](/latin?word=Mons+Abiegnus) (Lt)
> Mountain of Fir-Wood. Represents the mystical ascent in consciousness leading to a state of exaltation, often compared to intoxication. used in Rosicrucian literature. And instance of divine grace (A gift) or beneficence from Chesed. see [72](72), [129](129).

---

### [Itinerarium (et Vita)](/latin?word=Itinerarium) (Lt)
> Travels. Refers to the Allegorical journeys of C.R.

---

### [Formido Maxima](/latin?word=Formido+Maxima) (Lt)
> Greatest Fear, dread. Produced by the illusions created by the eye (Ayin).

---

### [fons aureus](/latin?word=fons+aureus) (Lt)
> golden fountain. an alchemical term. "For whoever drinks of the golden fountain, experiences a renovation of his whole nature, a vanishing of all unhealthy matter, a fresh supply of blood, a strengthening of the heart and of all the vitals, and a permanent bracing of every limb. For it opens all the pores, and through them bears away all that prevents the perfect health of the body, but allows all that is beneficial to remain therein unmolested." [Hermetic Museum I, p. 325] see [48](48).

---

### See Also:

- [8](8)
