## 126 - One Hundred Twenty-Six
> (3x6x7). Perimeter of a 6 square cross built from a 9x9x9 cube.

### [neobed](/keys/NOBD) - נעבד
> Serving, Administrative or Aiding. [32nd Path](32) of [Tav](400). It may be read as perpetual generation (Nun), the fountain or renewal (Ayin) in (Beth) Daleth. ([More >>](neobed))

### [almahnah](/keys/ALMNH) - אלמנה
> a widow, a desolate place. Said to refer to the "Fall" of Malkuth, the Bride in her separation from the Son, Tiphareth. Contains the mystery of widowhood, which is also one of motherhood, for the bride and the mother truly are one. The widow is connected with the ideas derived from the Egyptian Myth Isis. see [496](496), [52](52), [306](306), [432](432).

> *"126... Now this is the number of אלמנה (Almanah), or Widow, and it is said by the Sons of the Doctrine to refer to Malkuth in her separation from Tiphareth...*

> *"But the Widow, is she not also the Bride, and one with the Mother as well? In Mizraim was she known as Isis, and her son was Khoor, whom the Greeks called Horus, and verily he is that same בן who is Tiphareth, and his mother Isis is Binah, for our father Mosha [Moses] did learn wisdom in the temples of Mizraim, and he hath transmitted his wisdom to the assemblies which came after him. Thus it is written "out of Egypt have I called my son," and verily that son is Ben or Tiphareth. And the mystery of Widowhood which separates the Bride from the Son, is a mystery of Motherhood also, for the Bride and the Mother truly are one... Now in the Widow is seen the power of the name in Chesed, for the word beginneth AL, then cometh the hidden Manna, for the next two letters, Mem and Nun, are they not Manna? Then at the end cometh the letter Heh, which signifieth sight, and is also the special letter in Tetragrammaton pertaining both to the Mother and the Bride. Now the Mother is the sphere of Shabbathai, or Rest, and the letter of Tav is Shabbathai itself, and from this Path of Tav on the Tree dependeth Malkuth the Bride, who is the Resplendent Intelligence, and behold her glory comes from Shabbathai, which from the Midst governs and administers all."* [36th Communication]

### [Aphilah](/keys/APILH) - אפילה
> darkness. The "darkness" of physical embodiment. see [711](711). In [Exodus 10:22](http://biblehub.com/exodus/10-22.htm) this word is spelled APLH, but it is used with חשך, [hoshek](/keys/ChShK). Thus חשך אפלה, [hoshek aphilah](/keys/ChShK.APLH) is "thick darkness." In Rabbinical Hebrew: late fruit, latter rain (the autumnal rainy season).

### [Hehehpil](/keys/HAPIL) - האפיל
> to darken, obscure, mystify, to be late in ripening.

### [Jehovah Adonai AGLA](/keys/IHVH.ADNI.AGLA) - יהוה אדני אגלא
> A talismatic name of God. AGLA is notoriqon for: [Ateh Gibor le-Olam Adonai](/keys/AThH.GBVR.LOVLM.ADNI) - *"Thou art mighty forever, O Lord or Thine is the power through the endless ages, O Lord."*

> *"This 'name' is the sum of the values of three great mystery words used over and over again in magical manuscripts known to the erudite of Europe. Those words are: יהוה, [Jehovah](/keys/IHVH) = [26](26); אדני, [Adonai](/keys/ADNI) = [65](65); and אגלא, [AGLA](/keys/AGLA) = [35](35). Observe that their numbers are hinted at by heptagon [of the vault} defined in the Fama, because the boundary of that heptagon is 35 feet, and its area is 91 square feet, so that the boundary represents AGLA and the area represent Jehovah Adonai. And now we have the same names suggested by the total length of the 21 boundary lines of the vault, considered as a solid."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order p.120] see [26](26), [65](65), [35](35).

### [Kohen On](/keys/KHN.AN) - כהן אן
> priest of On. [Genesis 41:45](http://biblehub.com/genesis/41-45.htm). see [302](302)

### [mahlon](/keys/MLVN) - כהן אן
> lodging, inn, night quarters, hospitality.

### [soos](/keys/SVS) - סוס
> horse, swallow. Refers to "dung of the Horse," and alchemical expression. see [711](711), [1059](1059).

### [obade adahmah](/keys/OBD.ADMH) - עבד אדמה
> A tiller (or slave) of the earth. [Genesis 4:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/4-2.htm): *"Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a **tiller of the ground.**"* As a verb עבד means: to work, to till, cultivate, to serve, to worship. As a noun, עבד Ehbed: worshiper, subject, servant, slave. see [50](50), [76](76), [160](160) (Cain).

### [noa](/keys/NVO) - נוע
> to wave, to quiver, vibrate, to stagger, be unstable; to tremble, shake, to wander about; to blow the nose.

### [aoon or ahvon](/keys/OVN) - עון
> As a verb: to lie down, to rest, to dwell, to move agitate; marital duty, cohabit. It had the early meaning: to conjure, do magic, act as a soothsayer, but now it is spelt עונן for that specific purpose.

### [ahvon](/keys/OVN) - עון
> guilt, sin, iniquity, punishment, crime. [Genesis 4:13](http://biblehub.com/genesis/4-13.htm). see [16](16), [826](826).

### [awnahv](/keys/ONV) - ענו
> humble, lowly; poor and afflicted, oppressed.

### [peliyah](/keys/PLAIH) - פלאיה
> wonderful, mysteries, miracle, marvel, wonderful deed. In [Psalm 139:6](http://biblehub.com/psalms/139-6.htm) it is spelled PLAIH and is translated "too wonderful."

### [payliaw](/keys/PLIAH) - פלאיה
> wonder, miraculous, mysterious. see [111](111), [527](527).

### [Pelaiah](/keys/PLAIH) - פלאיה
> A personal masculine name. see [Nehemiah 8:7](http://biblehub.com/nehemiah/8-7.htm). "God has done a wonder". One of Ezra's assistants (Ezra was a Jewish scholar, teacher and religious reformer in post-exile times).

### [A-Ad-Adon-Adonai](/keys/A.AD.ADN.ADNI) - א אד אדן אדני
> Lord. Divine Name for Malkuth. Written as a tetractys:

>	|    A      1
>	|   D A     5
>	|  N D A   55
>	| I N D A  65
>	|  total: 126

> see also: [406](406), [713](713), [291](291), [400](400).

### [Sivawn](/keys/SIVN) - סיון
> Sivan, the ninth month of the Hebrew year, corresponding to June-July (or to May-June, according to Standard Bible Dictionary), and thus to Cancer and Cheth. In [Esther 8:9](http://biblehub.com/esther/8-9.htm) *"At once the royal secretaries were summoned-on the 23rd day of the third month [i.e. from the vernal equinox], the month of Sivan."* As symbol of Cancer, connected also with alchemical separation. see [95](95), [1360](1360), [776](776).

### [I V I O L](/keys/I-V-I-O-L) - י ו י ע ל
> the initials of *inveni verbum in ore leonis,* "Discover the word in the lion's mouth." If taken as Hebrew letters = 126. 126 is the length in fact of the boundaries of the V O T A. Albert Pike adds to this note: "[The Lion](/keys/ARIH) אריה, ארי.. which also means the altar still holds in his mouth the key of the enigma of the sphinx." [Morals and Dogma, p.211] see [216](216), [259](259).

### [keveq](/keys/KVQ) - כוק
> The 35th name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with 5th quinance (21°-25°) of Capricorn. see [141](141), [1525](1525).

### [Anu](/keys/ONV) - ענו
> The 63rd name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 3rd quinance (11°-15°) of Gemini. see [157](157), [1525](1525).

### [Gimigin](/keys/GIMIGIN) - גימיגין
> Day demon of the 1st decanate of Taurus, according to Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 18]. This decanate is ruled by Venus and has the qualities: devoted, artistic, sympathetic. The influence of the demon suggest conscious imbalance, resulting in negative aspects of these qualities. In the Tarot minor arcana the 1st decanate of Taurus is attributed to the 5 of Pentacles. This represents the operation of Geburah, sphere of Mars and volition, is Assiah, the material world of action. When ill-dignified, as here, this may indicate toil unrewared; loss of money, poverty; trouble through lack of imagination and foresight. The remedy is to learn to welcome change and become receptive to the voice of intuition.

### [Sinui](/keys/SNVI) - סנוי
> Senoi, Sanuy. with Sansennoi and Sammangeloph, Sennoi was dispached by God to bring Lilith back to Adam after a falling out between the pair in the pre-Eve days. Lilith was evil, but an amulet bearing the name Sennoi was sufficient, when Lilith beheld it, to deter her from harming anyone, particulary infants (in, that is, post-eden days). For the sigil of Sennoi see The Book of the Angel Raziel and Budge, Amulets and Talismans, 225. [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p. 266]

## Latin/Greek:

### [ha riza](/greek?word=h+riza) (Gr) - η ριζα
> the root. [Revelations 22:16](http://biblehub.com/revelation/22-16.htm). One of the names of Christ. "A root that from which anything springs." Metaphorically, a root, stem, stock of a family. Latin "Stirps", a face, family.

### [Lapis Chemicus](/latin?word=Lapis+Chemicus) (Lt)
> The stone of Alchemy. see [53](53), [51](51).

### [Novus ordo](/latin?word=Novus+ordo) (Lt)
> New Order. Commemorated on the Great Seal of the U.S. has to do with man's altered conception of the physical plane as being the kingdom (Malkuth) of Heaven (Kether). see [224](224), [370](370).

### [sanctuarium](/latin?word=sanctuarium) (Lt)
> sanctuary. Tav is the holy temple or sanctuary in the midst. *"Tav is the temple or sanctuary in the midst, and do not forget that in Judaism the special day of sacrifice and service at the temple was the day sacred to Shabathai. So you won't be surprised, we think, that the Latin for sanctuary, which is sactuarium, also adds to 126."* [36th Communication]

### [Virgo Intacta](/latin?word=Virgo+Intacta) (Lt)
> untouched virgin, virgin of purity. The "untouchable Glory of God" [Fama]. see [74](74), [18](18), [56](56).

### [Virgo Sophia](/latin?word=Virgo+Sophia) (Lt)
> The Virgin of Wisdom.

### [aqua mineralis](/latin?word=aqua+mineralis) (Lt)
> mineral water. The microcosm in one stage of its development. The "seed of the world" in all senses.

> *"Now this mineral water, and the microcosm, are one; and the mineral water is the microcosm in one stage of its development. But be on your guard against a too facile, or too restricted an interpretation here. The Aqua mineralis is the seed of the world in all senses. It is that which is the Intact Virgin, or the Untouchable Glory of God, as one of the four mottoes in the Fama puts it."* [36th Communication]. see [74](74) (Latin).

> *"...as you can see from Rota, the power of the Intact Virgin, who is also Sophia, or Wisdom, is in Rota represented by the woman in Justice, and she is both the Bride and the Queen, and thus she is also AIMA, MAIH, ISIS, EVE, and all the rest of the host of Anima figures, including the Window and Venus. The microcosm is indeed the chemical stone, rough, and requiring treatment by art before it is purified and perfected. Yet it is in essence ever pure, and nothing can diminish that essential purity. This notwithstanding, in the field of relative phenomena, the work veiled in the figurative language of the Hermetic sciences must go on. Its outcome makes evident the truth that the mineral waters and the chemical stone are the microcosm. That is the true Adam who is Ben the Son. Hence the substitute word of our Masonic Brethren really signifies what is the Son, and he who knows the answer to this experimentally, not merely by hearsay, finds the Alchemical Stone, the Sumum Bonum, and the place of rest that is Shabbathai in the Midst. Man himself is the Abode of Peace, the place of refuge, the Sanctuary, and the time draws near when here in America they who are true Sons of the Widow will realize in truth the New Order, which is commemorated on the Seal of the United States."* [36th Communication]

### [intellectus](/latin?word=intellectus) (Lt)
[perception](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=intellectus). comprehension/understanding; recognition/discerning; intelect; meaning/sense. see [261](261) (Latin), [45](45).

> *"The human understanding is divided into seven powers.... The seventh and last is the power of realising the whole intellectual intuition--**intellectus**"*

> *"Our understanding is formed after that of Jesus Christ:... (7) when, as the result of these, there is born in us a new and more brilliant light, surpassing far the light of reason and of the senses--**intellectus**"* {[Karl von Eckartshausen, The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary, letter VI](cloud-upon-sanctuary)}

### [Hic est copus](/latin?word=Hic+est+copus) (Lt)
> This is the body.

### See Also:

- [9](9)