## 130 - One Hundred Thirty
> 13x10. 13 = Unity ([Echad - אחד](13)). Therefore "The EYE (Ayin) is the ONE, multiplied through the Sephiroth" *[Gematria PFC]*

---

### [Ayin](/keys/OIN) - עין
> Letter-name. Eye as an organ of sight. Look, face, appearance, color; fountain; visible surface, gleam, sparkly, hole, ring, guide post, cross-roads; substance, being, shade. "Well-spring of outward appearance," and "Darkness is the fountain of existence." *[Book of Tokens]* see [708](708), [780](780)

---

### [Sinai](/keys/SINI) - סיני
> Mountain where Moses received Laws (i.e. the decrees). [Exodus 19:2](http://biblehub.com/exodus/19-2.htm).

---

### [pen](/keys/PN) - פן
> "lest"; a removing, hence -- that not (as a warning).

> [Genesis 3:22-23](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Genesis+3%3A22-23&version=KJV;WLC): *"then IHVH Elohim said 'behold, the man has become like one of us, to know good and evil; and now, **lest** he put forth his hand, and take also of the Tree of Life, and eat, and live forever. Therefore IHVH Elohim sent him forth from the Garden of Eden, to till the ground from whence he was taken."* see [780](780).

> Fabre D'Olivet remarks: *"פן. The face of anything whatsoever, the front of a thing, that which is presented first to the view: That which strikes, astonishes, frightens: every idea of presence, conversion, consideration, observations, etc. פן the aspect of a person, his countenance, face, mein, air, sad or serene, mild or irritated: action of turning the face, to turn, expressed by the relations before, in the presence of, from before, etc. Action causing the face to turn, expressed by beware! NO! Lest! for fear of! etc. That which imposes by its aspect: a prince, a leader; a star, a ruby, a tower, etc. That which is the cause of disturbance, of hesitation. The Arabic [word] has evidently the same primitive idea which has produced the Hebraic root; by although starting from the same principle, its developments have been different; they have inclined rather toward the physical than toward the moral, as can be remarked in general, of other roots. Thus, from the primitive idea deduced from the exterior face which things present, from their manner of being phenomenal, the Arabic idiom has drawn the secondary ideas of complication and of complicating; of mixture and of mixing; of variety and of varying; of specification and of specifying; of classification and of classifying; so that finally, considering as general; what had been particular, the same root [Arabic word] is used to designate an art, or a science of some sort, because it is by means of arts and sciences that one can class all things and examine them under their aspects."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 427-428]

---

### [qal](/keys/QL) - קל
> swift, light, fleet. [Isaiah 5:26](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/5-26.htm): *"He lifts up a banner for the distant nations, he whistles for those at the ends of the earth. here they come, swiftly and speedily."*

> Fabre D'Olivet: *"The root קו, image of that which is undefined, vague, unformed, united by contraction to the directive sign, Lamed, produces a root which designates that which is deprived of consistency and form; sound, voice, wind, but, if the same root is conceived as formed by the union of the compressive sign Qoph, with the root אל image image of all elevation and all superior force, it expresses then the action of roasting, parching, etc. קל Every idea of lightness, rapidity, velocity: that which is attenuated, slendor, thin: without consistency; of little value; vile, cowardly, infamous. קול Voice, sound."*

---

### [Nesek](/keys/NSK) - נסך
A pouring out, libation. [Numbers 15:5](http://biblehub.com/numbers/15-5.htm): *"And the fourth part of an hin of wine for a drink offering shalt thou prepare."*

> Also: molten image. [Isaiah 48:5](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/48-5.htm): *"Mine idol hath done them, and my graven image, and my molten image, hath commanded them."*

> Also: To appoint, as in [Psalm 2:6](http://biblehub.com/psalms/2-6.htm): *"Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion."* See [140](140).

---

### [Milayin](/keys/MLIN) - מלין
> Decrees. Prophetic sayings. Words.

---

### [Yeminehkah](/keys/IMINK) - ימינך
> Your right hand . This is the right hand of Tetragrammaton, and it is taken as an instrument of deliverance.

> - [Psalm 138:7](http://biblehub.com/psalms/138-7.htm): *"Thy right hand shall save me."*
> - [Psalm 80:15](http://biblehub.com/psalms/80-15.htm): *"And of the plant thy right hand hath planted."*
> - [Psalm 80:17](http://biblehub.com/psalms/80-17.htm): *"Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand,"*

---

### [Ye-kal Kelikah](/keys/IKLKLK) - יכלכלך
"sustain thee". [Psalm 55:22](http://biblehub.com/psalms/55-22.htm). See [666](666).

---

### [Sullahm](/keys/SLM) - סלם
> A ladder or staircase. The ladder of Jacob's dream. [Genesis 28:12](http://biblehub.com/genesis/28-12.htm). Compare with Tree of Life

---

### [iyane](/keys/OIN) - עין
> to look in, to look carefully, search, investigate, to think over, deliberate, contemplate, to read casually, to look up quotations.

---

### [uyan](/keys/OIN) - עין
> to be evenly balanced, weighing exactly.

---

### [aniy](/keys/ONI) - עני
> humbled, suffering, forbearing, lowliness, oppression, misery, affliction, poverty, destitution, humbleness.

---

### [hatzahlah](/keys/HTzLH) - הצלה
> deliverance. [Esther 4:14](http://biblehub.com/esther/4-14.htm).

---

### [keleph](/keys/KLP) - כלף
> to clap or strike; a hammer.

---

### [Ahmudi](/keys/OMVDI) - עמודי
> Pillars, columns. [Job 26:11](http://biblehub.com/job/26-11.htm): *"The pillars of heaven tremble and are astonished at his reproof."* The Pillar of mercy is that of light. The Pillar of severity is that of darkness. All creation is a mixture and equilibrium of Light and Darkness. *[Gematria PFC]*

---

### [immekah](/keys/OMK) - עמך
> "With thee." [Psalm 36:9](http://biblehub.com/psalms/36-9.htm). In the passage cited, the Psalmist says, "with thee is the fountain of Life," and though he uses another noun for "fountain," the idea expressed is related to the word עין [Ayin](/keys/OIN). see [780](780), [358](358), [830](830), [17](17)

---

### [Nemem](/keys/NMM) - נמם
> 57th Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 3rd quinance (11°-15°) of Taurus. Written נממיה, [Nememiah](/keys/NMMIH), in full. "God Praise Worthy." see [145](145), [690](690).

> Angel of the 6 of Pentacles or Tiphareth of Assiah, the operation of the central Ego in the material world. The 6 of Pentacles is astrologically associated with the 2nd decanate of Taurus, ruled by Mercury. When well dignified, the influence of this angel can indicate practically and determination, discretion and diplomacy; gain by letters, writing, travel, speaking, teaching, commissions and through advertising, study, books, and all things ruled by Mercury. When ill-dignified, it can mean loss through the same things.

---

### Greek/Latin

---

### [CR, GV, IA, IO, RC, B, GG, PD](/latin?word=CR+GV+IA+IO+RC+B+GG+PD) (Lt).
> Initials of the 8 persons who founded the Rosicrucian Order.

---

### [Creans tenebras](/latin?word=Creans+tenebras) (Lt)
> "I create the darkness." The latin translation of [Isaiah 45:7](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/45-7.htm)

---

### [Primum mobile](/latin?word=Primum+mobile) (Lt)
> First motion. The Latin for [Rashith ha-Galgalim](1032), "The Beginning of the Whirlings," attributed to Kether. See [50](50), [80](80) *[Gematria PFC]*

---

### [Sperma solis](/latin?word=Sperma+solis) (Lt)
> Seed of the sun (or gold).

> The hermetic arcanum is this: communicate the male sperma solis to the female matrix of the moon, or in other words turn the light inward and draw out the inward half-circle. The artist who does so kindles an independent fire or light and transmutes Moon into Sun. i.e. Silver into Gold. The true meaning of this emerges in one case. *[AE Waite: Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross, p463-4]*  See [60](60), [64](64)

---

### [Disciplina Arcani](/latin?word=Disciplina+Arcani) (Lt)
Secret training.

> This great mystery was always an object of instruction *in the Secret school of the invisible and interior Church;* this great knowledge was understood in the earliest days of Christianity under the name of **Disciplina Arcani.** *[Karl von Echartshausen, The Cloud upon the Sanctuary, Letter IV, p41-42]*

---

### English Gematria:

- [unknown hand](/english?word=unknown+hand)  *([Fama Intro p.13](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13/mode/2up))*
- [Translator](/english?word=Translator) *([Fama Intro p.13](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13/mode/2up))*

---

### See Also:

- [4](4)
