## 132 - One Hundred Thirty-Two
> (3x4x11)

---

### [Jehovah Elohikam](/keys/IHVH.ALHIKM) - יהוה אלהיכם
> Tetragrammaton your God [Deuteronomy 4:23](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/4-23.htm), [10:17](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/10-17.htm). see [106](106), [26](26), [1145](1145).

---

### [Chasidim](/keys/ChSIDIM) - חסידים
> Godly men, Saints. These are the Masters of Compassion, attributed to Chesed and the Grade of Exempt Adept (see [269](269)). [Psalm 149:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/149-1.htm), [5](http://biblehub.com/psalms/149-1.htm): *"Praise ye the Lord. Sing unto the Lord a new song, and his praise in the **congregation of saints**... Let the saints be joyful in glory; let them sing aloud upon their beds."*

> *"The 'devout' means of course those who are devoted... the Hebrew words is 'Chasidim', and this is the technical designation of all practical Qabalists, hence of all true Rosicrucians. The word comes from the noun חסד, [Chesed](/keys/ChSD), Mercy or benevolence. This is the name of the fourth circle on the Tree of Life. It is called the sphere of Jupiter, and astrologically Jupiter represents comprehension of natural law, expansiveness, and hence good fortune. Chesed, moreover, is said to be the seat of the measuring intelligence. Thus we perceive that one of the Chasidim is one who rightly measure his position in the cosmic order, perceives that human personality rests upon the eternal foundation of the limitless light, and looks upon himself as a channel for inexhaustible benevolence. On this account the 'word' R.C. becomes his mark and character."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p. 350]. see [220](220).

> Of Chasidim Mackey writes: *"The name of a sect which existed in the time of the Maccabees, and which was organized for the purpose of opposing innovations upon the Jewish faith. Their essential principles were to observe all the actual laws of purification, to meet frequently for devotion, to submit to acts of self-denial and mortification, to have all things in common, and sometimes to withdraw from society and to devote themselves to contemplation."* [Encyclopedia of Freemasonry, p. 160]

---

### [qibbel](/keys/QBL) - קבל
> to receive, accept, take. The feminine noun from the verb QBLH, Qabalah.

---

### [qabal](/keys/QBL) - קבל
> to cry out; to complain. the reaction of the old patterns to the process of regeneration.

---

### [balaq](/keys/BLQ) - בלק
> to lay waste, destroy. What is destroyed is the false sense of separate personality.

---

### [ha-moawya](/keys/HMVOIA) - המועיא
> "The bringing-forth one." From the root: מועאה, origin, descent, privy.

---

### [noib](/keys/NOIB) - נעיב
> residence, station.

---

### [neiyeb, nayeib](/keys/NOIB) - נעיב
> prefect, deputy, commissioner; military post, garrison; pillar; substance. The pillar of mercy contains the substance of the "bringing-forth", which is the deputy of God, or the inner teacher, the Hierophant. see [Key 5](5).

---

### [Nenael](/keys/NNAAL) - ננאאל
> "God who abases the proud." 53rd Shemhamphorash; angel of the 4 of Wands (Jupiter-Chesed in Atziluth). 261-265. Chommé, Saturn. May 11, July 22, October 2, December 12, February 23. 5:20-5:40 PM. [Psalm 118:75](http://biblehub.com/psalms/118-75.htm) *"I know, O Lord (IHVH), that thy judgement are righteous, and that in faithfulness thou hast afflicted me."* Rules the high sciences; influences eccesiactics, professors, magistrates, and men of law. Person born: melancholy humor, loves a private life, repose and meditation; will distinguish himself by his knowledge of abstract sciences. see [965](965), [1525](1525), [101](101).

> Godwin gives: angel of the fifth quinance (21- 25) of Aries, angel by day of the 4 of wands. This represents the operation of the sphere of Jupiter or cosmic memory, in the archetypal world of ideas.

---

### [Abdon](/keys/OBDVN) - עבדון
> Abdon, "servant" (of On, the Sun-god); the fifth judge of Israel, in [Judges 12:13](http://biblehub.com/judges/12-13.htm)-[15](http://biblehub.com/judges/12-15.htm) *"After him [Elon the Zebulunite], Abdon son of Hillel from Pirathon, led Israel. He had forty sons and thirty grandsons, who rode on seventy donkeys. he lead Israel eight years. Then Abdon son of Hillel died, and was buried at Pirathon in Ephraim, the hill country of the Amalekites."* see [782](782).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Microcosmus](/latin?word=Microcosmus) (Lt)
> Microcosm. The idea that man is an epitome of all the forces in the universe, containing within himself, in principle everything included in the constitution of the macrocosm, or Great World (See [175](175), [119](119)).

---

### [balneum naturae](/latin?word=balneum+naturae) (Lt)
> natural bath or bath of nature. An alchemical term. *"The philosophers called the fire their balneum, but it is balneum naturae, 'a natural bath', not an artificial one, for it is not any kind of water, but a certain subtle temperature moisture, which compasseth the glass, and feeds their sun, or fire."* [Thomas Vaughan: Writings-Coelum Terrae, p.144] see [60](60) (balneum), [72](72) (naturae).

---

### [Lumen de Lumine](/latin?word=lumen+de+lumine) (Lt)
Light from light. Title of a book by Thomas Vaughan. Full Title: *[Lumen de lumine](https://quod.lib.umich.edu/e/eebo/A64767.0001.001), or, A new magicall light discovered and communicated to the world by Eugenius Philalethes.*

> *"The mystic mountain ([from Khunrath's Amphitheatrum Chemicum](https://i.pinimg.com/originals/8d/51/a9/8d51a9616fa3fb820ff8f42f1f78e33e.jpg)), with the dragon at the summit, is also a Rosicrucian Symbol, as one may see in Thomas Vaughan's Lumin de lumine, where Section 2 is entitled 'A Letter from the Brouthers of R.C., Concerning the Invibible, Magical Mountain and the Treasure therein Contained.' Incindentally, the title of this section is a clear enough intimation that Thomas Vaughan was in communication with the Invisible Order"* [True and Invisble (Weiser) p. 108]

---

### English Gematria:

- [Observation](/english?word=Observation) *([Fama Intro p.12](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n12/mode/2up))*

---

### See Also:

- [6](6)
