## 133 - One Hundred Thirty-Three
> (7x19)

---

### [Gidh'on](/keys/GDOVN) - גדעון
> Gideon, "Hewer" or "Feller". The warriors who delivered the people of central Israel from their enemies. [Judges 8:22](http://biblehub.com/judges/8-22.htm): *"Then the men of Israel said unto Gideon, rule thou over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son also: for thou hast delivered us from the hand of Midian."*

> Note that מדין [Median](/keys/MDIN), according to Inman is probably derived from מי [mi](/keys/MI), water or seed and דן [Dan](/keys/DN), the judge, connected with alchemical putrefaction and Scorpio (#[54](54)). thus is signifies "the seed of Dan." see [104](104), [336](336), [396](396); [783](783).

---

### [negeph](/keys/NGP) - נגף
> "plague". Described in the retribution of God upon Egypt, during the Passover, in [Exodus 12:13](http://biblehub.com/exodus/12-13.htm): *"And the blood shall be to you for a sign upon the houses where you are; and when I see the blood, I will make you glad, and the plague shall not be among you to destroy you when I smite the land of Egypt."* see [853](853).

---

### [kaagli](/keys/KOGLI) - כעגלי
> calves. [Malachi 4:2](http://biblehub.com/malachi/4-2.htm). the newly "reborn". see [713](713).

---

### [gephen](/keys/GPN) - גפן
> the vine. A mystical term, used by Jesus *("I am the vine, and you are the grapes").* Also the vine from which comes the "Blood of the Grape." see [260](260).

---

### [Gikoq](/keys/GIKQ) - גיכק
> A synthetic word referred to in [I.Z.Q. 699] "For in the mysteries of the letters of Solomon, the King, those 4 letters Aleph, Heh, Cheth, Ayin are surrounded by גיכק." These 4 letters represent Spirit (Aleph), vision (Heh), receptivity (Cheth) and renewal (Ayin). The 2nd 4 letters suggest memory (Gimel), will (Yod), cyclicity (Kaph) and organization (Qoph).

---

### [yam ha-melakh](/keys/IM.HMLCh) - ים המלח
> the salt sea. Refers to the Dead Sea.

---

### [Chaumiah](/keys/ChOMIH) - חעמיה
> 38th Shemhamphorash, angel of 5 of Swords. "God the hope of all the children of earth." Corresponding to [Agla](/keys/AGLA), אגלא, (according to Lenaim's La Science Cabalistique). 186° - 190° Serucuth. April 26, July 7, September 17, November 28, February 8. To acquire all the treasures of heaven and earth. [Psalm 91:9](http://biblehub.com/psalms/91-9.htm): *"Because thou hast made the Lord, which is my refuge, even the most high, thy habitation."* Against fever, weapons, ferocious animals, and infernal spirits. Rules all religious cults and all that pertains to God; protects all those who see truth. see [965](965), [1525](1525), [118](118), [678](678).

> Of Chamiah Godwin gives: Angel of the 2nd quinance of Aquarius (6-10); angel by night of the 5 of swords. This represents the operation of the sphere of Mars in Yetzirah, the formative world.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Lapis Capitalis](/latin?word=Lapis+Capitalis) (Lt)
> Pinnacle or cap-stone of a pyramid (see [564](564)).

---

### English Gematria:

- [Rosie Cross](/english?word=Rosie+Cross) *([Fama Intro p.19](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n19))*
- [Incredulity](/english?word=Incredulity) *([Fama Intro p.14](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n14))*

---

### See Also:

- [7](7)

