## 134 - One Hundred Thirty-Four
> (2x67). 134 cubits is the approximate length of 12 lines and 13 axes of the altar in [Exodus 27:1](http://biblehub.com/exodus/27-1.htm). *"And thou shalt make an altar of Shitim wood, five cubits long, and five cubits broad; the altar shall be four square: and the height there of shall be three cubits."*

	.   THE ALTAR OF 134 CUBITS
	.   8 lines of 5 cubits = 40
	.   4 lines of 3 cubits = 12 (52 external boundaries)
	.   1 Axis of 3 cubits = 3
	.   2 Axis of 5 cubits = 10 (13 coordinates)
	.   4 Axis of sqr_root[34] cubits = 23.32
	.   4 Axis of sqr_root[59] cubits = 30.72 (68.18 + 65) = 133.18
	.   2 Axis of sqr_root[50] cubits = 14.14
	.   If the square roots are carried to 4 places:
	.   4 x sqr_root[34] = 23.3240
	.   4 x sqr_root[59] = 30.7244
	.   2 x sqr_root[50] = 14.1422
	.   _______
	.   68.1906
	.   65.0000
	.   _______
	.   133.1906 or 134

---

### [Eni Chokmah](/keys/ANI.ChKMH) - אני חכמה
> I wisdom, I Chokmah [Proverbs 8:12](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/8-12.htm). *"I wisdom dwell with prudence."* Prudence in Hebrew Lexicon means: heap, pile, stack.

---

### [dahlaq](/keys/DLQ) - דלק
> to burn, to pursue hotly.

---

### [deleq](/keys/DLQ) - דלק
> fuel, burning materials.

---

### [moyzeibah](/keys/MOZIBH) - מעזיבה
> plastering, roof-plastering, ceiling. With different vowel points: rampart, floor, pavement [Sepher Yetzirah 1:8].

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Agoin](/greek?word=agoin) (Gr) - αγοιν
> Sanctuary. Wisdom is the eternal sanctuary of the Fire of Life; Understand is its Holy Spirit (see [576](576), [710](710) Greek).

---

### [Trigono Igneo](/latin?word=Trigono+Igneo) (Lt)
> Triangle of Fire. A very old symbol of Spirit. It appears in the Fama: *"It links up with the Lamb symbolism which is related to the Hindu God, Agni, the personification of the powers of fire. This **Trigono Igneo** is also connected with the Symbolism of the Great pyramid, which the ancients Egyptians called 'the Light' and which is a stone emblem of the eternal flame. That the same symbol appears twice on the reverse of the Seal of the U.S. (as an unfinished pyramid, and as a radiant triangle enclosing an eye) is another evidence that the structure of government intended by the founders of the American Republic presented itself to their minds as a piece of Egyptian Masonry. In this connection we should remember that the Rosicrucian are often termed fire philosophers."* [True and Invisible (Weiser) p. 88](https://archive.org/stream/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985#page/n95/search/igneo). see [146](146) Lt, [88](88), [46](46), [56](56), [74](74) Lt.

NOTE: Most English translations of the Fama spell this phrase "[Trygono Igneo](146)", but the [original German](https://archive.org/stream/famafraternitati00andr#page/22) spells it "[in Trigono Igneo](155)." See [155](155).

---

### [Ignis fatuus](/latin?word=Ignis+fatuus) (Lt)

[Ignis](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=ignis) [fatuus](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=fatuus). Foolish passion.

> *"for if thy Affections are engag'd, though to an Ignis fatuus, thou dost think it a Guide, because thou dost follow it."* [The fame and confession of the Fraternity of R.C. - Thomas Vaughan](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13)

---

### See Also:

- [8](8)
