## 135 - One Hundred Thirty-Five
> (5x27)

---

### [mamelakah](/keys/MMLKH) - ממלכה
> Thy Kingdom. [1 Chronicles 29:11](http://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/29-11.htm). "thine is the Kingdom." In the Hebrew text the prefix Heh is added to this word.

---

### [anaiah](/keys/ONIH) - עניה
> Jah has answered. [Nehemiah 8:4](http://biblehub.com/nehemiah/8-4.htm). Mathers, in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.19] gives: a destitute female.

---

### [qahawl](/keys/QHL) - קהל
> assembly, company, congregation, community. The assembly of the congergation of the rightesous is the body of light, or spiritual Israel [[Deuteronomy 9:10, 10:4, Genesis 49:6](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Deuteronomy+9%3A10%2C+10%3A4%2C+Genesis+49%3A6&version=KJV;WLC)].

---

### [qahlawh](/keys/QLH) - קלה
> to roast, parch, to consume, burn. Metathesis of קהל. It is the fire of desire which changes bodies during sleep (Qoph), guides every action (Lamed) and sees clearly the vision of its consuming rulership (Heh).

> Rosenroth says of qawlawh in [K.D.L.C.K. p. 673] says that written without Vav and with Heh as here, קלה, voces (voices) refers to Binah, but קול is Tiphareth.

---

### [paynawh, penah](/keys/PNH) - פנה
> corner; pinnacle, turret. All three letters of this word have to do with the crowning fire: Peh, the Marforce, or lighting from heaven ([Key 16](16)), Nun the reproductive agency which multiplies and transforms ([Key 13](13)) and Heh, the result, or sovereign reason, which constitutes the highest good ([Key 4](4)). see [636](636).

---

### [paynawh, pennaw](/keys/PNH) - פנה
> to remove, clear, clear away, empty; to free, acquit, transfer. The result of the above. see [530](530), [1240](1240).

---

### [Ammihud](/keys/OMIHVD) - עמיהוד
> "People of Splendor." The father of Elishama, prince of Ephraim. [Numbers 1:10] Ephraim = Taurus = alchemical congelation. see [331](331).

---

### [Melekdial](/keys/MLKDIAL) - מלכדיאל
> geomantic intelligence of Aries (alchemical calcination, #[7](7)). Aries is also connected with Heh, [Key 4](4) and the creation of the stone.

---

### [Adam Melek](/keys/ADM.MLK) - אדם מלך
> King of Adam or Adam the King. The One Ego, or the Stone, the Higher Self. To attain this is to become one with the stone.

---

### [Gusion](/keys/GVSIVN) - גוסיון
> Goetic demon by day of the second decanate of Cancer. see [785](785). This decanate is ruled by Mars and has the qualities of: intense, patriotic and tenacious. The influence of the demon suggest conscious imbalance, resulting in negative qualities. The name of the demon indicates subconscious receptivity to influence of psychic voices (Gimel), false teaching (Vav) and application of wrath (Samekh) to contacts with other through a false sense of personal will (Yod), inviting that in reproductive excess (Nun) is the final unending goal (Vav). This decanate is also associated with the three of Cups in the Tarot minor arcana, or the operation of Binah, Sphere of Saturn in Briah, the world of creation. the influence of the demon, when ill aspected can bring the danger of the 'triangle' situation in relationships, trouble through attachments to the opposite sex; misunderstandings, prodigality and sensuality.

---

## Greek/Latin

---

### [doksa](/greek?word=doksa) (Gr) - δοξα
> Glory.

---

### [Ex Deo Nascimur](/latin?word=Ex+Deo+Nascimur) (Lt)
> "from God we are born." This phrase is part of an inscription which was found in the vault of brother C.R (see [683](683), [25](25), [22](22), [88](88) Latin).

---

### [ignis vivens](/latin?word=ignis+vivens) (Lt)
> living fire. *"The sages call it the living fire, because God has endowed it with his own divine, and vitalizing power."* [[Hermetic Museum I, p.199](https://archive.org/stream/b24927363_0001#page/199/mode/2up)
]
---

### English Gematria:

- [Translation](/english?word=Translation) *([Fama Intro p.13](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13/mode/2up))*

---

### See Also:

- [9](9)
