## 136 - One Hundred Thirty-Six
> ([8](8)x[17](17)). Σ[16](16) = 136. Summation of the Magic Square of Jupiter. And mystic path of Vav.

---

### [Owdeh IHVH bekal-libbi](/keys/AVDH.IHVH.BKL-LBI) - אודה יהוה בכל־לבי
> [Psalm 9:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/9-1.htm): *"I will give thanks unto the LORD with all my heart."*

---

### [Kasmael, Hismael](/keys/HSMAL) - הסמאל
> (Kasmael, Hismael) the Intelligence of Jupiter.

---

### [Yophiel, Jophiel](/keys/IHPIAL) - יהפיאל
> (Yophiel, Jophiel) the Spirit of Jupiter.

---

### [tob tayam](/keys/TVB.TOM) - טוב טעם
> (tob tayam) Good discernment. [Psalm 119:66](http://biblehub.com/psalms/119-66.htm).

---

### [mammon](/keys/MMVN) - ממון
> (mammon) wealth, value; money, fines, penalties.

---

### [owni](/keys/OVNI) - עוני
> affliction, poverty, privation.

---

### [aanyiv](/keys/ONIV) - עניו
> answering, reply, response; meek.

---

### [Kol, Qol](/keys/QVL) - קול
> voice. Qabalist refer this particularly to Tiphareth, which is the heart or inmost center. Refers also to the unheard voice-the voice of intuition or of understanding, attributed to Binah, seat of the higher soul, Neshamah, pictured as [Key 5](5), the Hierophant. see [67](67), [162](162).

> Inman says this word signifies "to call", "the voice"; "time". Sanskrit, ?ium? "to sound" [Greek word] "to call"; Latin [calo calendoe](/latin?word=calo+calendoe); also קהל [kahal](/keys/QHL), "to call", "an assembly". [Ancient Faiths, p.393]

---

### [qoloh](/keys/QLV) - קלו
> His voice. [Deut 4:36](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/4-36.htm). Also: call, cry, thunder.

---

### [melak ha-goval](/keys/MLAK.HGVAL) - מלאך הגואל
> The angel of vengeance. The opposite quality of "good discernment," caused by not listening to "His Voice" see [4](4), [16](16), [34](34), [340](340).

> גואל means redeemer and is so used in [Jeremiah 59:20](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/59-20.htm) (see [440](440)). In [Numbers 35:19](http://biblehub.com/numbers/35-19.htm) it is used to mean avenger (of blood) but spelled גאל.

---

### [kaphol](/keys/KPVL) - כפול
> double.

---

### [mitzah](/keys/MTzAH) - מצאה
> ability, means, to be supplied with.

---

### [mephiyu](/keys/MPIV) - מפיו
> out of his mouth. [Numbers 30:3](http://biblehub.com/numbers/30-3.htm).

> "from his mouth". [Job 22:22](http://biblehub.com/job/22-22.htm): *"I pray thee, instruction form his mouth."* see [906](906).

---

### [lemyinu](/keys/LMINV) - 
> to his kind. [Genesis 1:11](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-11.htm): *"And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit **after his kind**"*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Kardia](/greek?word=kardia) (Gr)
> Heart. A key to all the meanings of [136](136). The tabernacle of God is the Human "Heart," and the Shekinah, or divine presence in its Holy of Holies, is the untouchable Glory of God (see [144](144)).

---

### [Dei gloria intacta](/latin?word=Dei+gloria+intacta) (Lt)
> "The untouchable glory of God." The divine soul, Neshamah, seated in Binah (67). The one operator in the Great Work. That spotless, imperishable principle whose purity cannot be soiled by even the worst of human beings. One of the Mottos in the vault of brother C.R. It was written round a circle, one of the 4 engraved on the brazen tip of the altar in the vault. In the circle was a picture of the head of a man. It represented the sign Aquarius. In this new age humanity will be controlled by those who understand that man is truly the untouchable, or virgin Glory of God.

> *"It signifies the undefiled Glory of God. It refers to the occult conception that the real inner man is identical with and inseparable from, the pure essence of the Life-power. That essence is correctly associated with the element of Air, to which the sign Aquarius (the man) is referred, because spirit and breath are correlated in all ancient philosophies. Furthermore, the adjective intacta, which I have translated "undefiled", means even more than this. The inner glory which is the essence of the real man is not only untouched by the outer vehicle of personality. It is truly untouchable. It can never be defiled. Here is a conception of man's spiritual nature far beyond that held by the exoteric churches, even today."* [[True and Invisible (Weiser) p. 126](https://archive.org/stream/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985#page/n131)]

---

### [Corvus niger](/latin?word=Corvus+niger) (Lt)
> The "Black Raven" is an alchemical symbol of the first matter. see [87](87) (corvus), [49](49) (niger); [998](998)

> the Black Raven. An alchemical term which THE SECRET SYMBOLS OF THE ROSICRUCIANS (page 11) calls the "door of the art." The Black Raven is the first stage of the matter of the Great Work. It is called the "door of the art" because it is the point of entrance through which the power of the Divine Soul enters into the field of manifestation. One clue is the black color, attributed to Binah, and Binah, as the point through which the powers of the supernal triad descend into the 7 Sephiroth of manifestation is the "door of art." Furthermore, In Binah the triad of the supernals is completed, so that Binah is the point at which the triune nature of the Life-power becomes manifest. Behind the veils of appearance is hid the glory of God. We read that the "habitation of God is thick darkness." Black is also the color of Saturn of which Binah is the sphere. Binah is also the Sephirah to which Neshamah, the divine soul is assigned, as is also grace. [Saturn is the lowest and first chakra, to which Tav and the holy city are attributed]. see [273](273), [272](272).

---

### [Deus Trinus](/latin?word=Deus+Trinus) (Lt)
> the Triune God. A reference to the supernal triad. In Binah this triad is completed and it is the point at which the triune nature of the Life-power becomes manifest.

---

### See Also:

- [10](10)
- [1](1)
- Σ[16](16) = 136
