## 137 - One Hundred Thirty-Seven
> (prime)

---

### [Khozon mi-Jehovah](/keys/ChZVN.MIHVH) - חזון מיהוה
> Visions from Tetragrammaton. [Lamentations 2:9](http://biblehub.com/lamentations/2-9.htm). The loss of which is lamented in the text.

---

### [Qabalah](/keys/QBLH) - קבלה
> "The Reception." Tradition, the ageless wisdom. see [72](72), [132](132).

> Applies to 4th Path of Chesed, the Measuring, Arresting or Receptacular Intelligence. The Qabalah, which is from the East, both Literally and Figuratively, is that inner tradition, founded on the sure vision from Tetragrammaton, inspired by the spirit of God. This tradition, moving from the actual and symbolic east to the actual and symbolic west, and becoming universal is what can open the books with 7 seals.

---

### [ophan](/keys/AVPN) - אופן
> wheel, circle; manner, way. Designation of a certain angels. see Ophanim, [187](187), [787](787).

---

### [aisetumeka](/keys/ASTVMKA) - אסטומכא
> belly, gullet, stomach; muscle, cartilage. [K.D.L.C.K. p.138]: *"Malkuth is called the stomach, because the stomach takes in nutriment and digests it, separation that is useless; moreover chyle is selected and sent to the appropriate place, to the other parts of the body: likewise Malkuth takes into herself the supernal spiritual influences, digesting and converting them into harmonious materials and conforming them so that there foods are vehicles for the 'thrones.'"*

> [Proverbs 31:15](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/31-15.htm) *"She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens."*

---

### [matzebah](/keys/MTzBH) - מצבה
> an image; pillar, stock, stump of a tree. Also MTzBH miltary post, guard; general assembly (lexicon).

---

### [Gideoni](/keys/GDONI) - גדעני
> warlike. From גדע "to cut off, hew down."

---

## Greek/Latin:
> Note: 3x3x5x137 = 6165, the value of the Greek phrase *"All these things will I give thee if thou will fall down and worship me."* [Matthew 4:9](http://biblehub.com/matthew/4-9.htm)

> 45 (ADM) x 137 = 6165, suggesting a false human qabalah. These words are connected with a vision of temptation, i.e. [Khozon mi-Jehovah](/keys/ChZVN.MIHVH). see above and *The Apostolic Gnosis, pp. 27-28, part II.*

---

### [Bene Radix Davidis](/latin?word=bene+radix+davidis) (Lt)
> The Good Root of David [Secret symbols page 35]. Part of the Latin motto, "From east to west and everywhere the good root of David reigns victorious." see [113](113), [24](24), [50](50).

---

### [Spiritus Dei](/latin?word=spiritus+dei) (Lt)
> Spirit of God. see [18](18).

---

### [Gallia Narbonensi](/latin?word=gallia+narbonensi) (Lt)
Gaul. The place where Brother A. died in the Rosicrucian allegory. *"After that A. in Gallia Narbonensi was deceased, there succeeded in his place our loving Brother N.N."* [Fama Fraternitatis]. See [1](1), [100](100).

---

### See Also:

- [11](11)
- [2](2)
