## 138 - One Hundred Thirty-Eight
> (2x3x23)

---

### [Ben Elohim](/keys/BN.ALHIM) - בן אלהים
> Son of God. see [148](148).

---

### [tsehmakh](/keys/TzMCh) - צמח
> branch. [Zech 6:12](). plant, sprout. Name of the Messiah. see [3](3), [12](12), [30](30), [39](39), [48](48), [57](57), [66](66), [75](75), [84](84), [93](93), [102](102), [111](111), [120](120), [300](300), [358](358), [855](855).

---

### [Lebawnon](/keys/LBNVN) - לבנון
> Lebanon, the "White Mountain." From the root לבנה, [Levanah](/keys/LBNH), the pale or white one, the moon. Combined with לב, [laib](/keys/LB), heart, as the seat of life, thought, emotions, etc, or "the midst" of anything, with Nun, the fish, or "to germinate," or sprout. [PFC on DD Bryant, VI, 5]. see [788](788), [87](87), [10](10), [880](880), [1006](1006), [96](96).

> *"Solomon sings: 'A garden [#[53](53)] enclosed in my sister, my spouse, a spring shut up, a fountain sealed-a fountain of gardens, a well of living waters and streams from Lebanon.' Compare this with what the sages say, the entrance of the philosopher's garden is kept by the Hesperian Dragon, which being put aside, a fountain ([130](130)) of the clearest water, proceeding from a 7-fold spring, floweth froth on every side of the entrance of the garden, wherein make the dragon drink thrice the magical number 7 until having drunk, he put off his hideous garments, then may the divine powers of light-bearing Venus and horned Diana be propitious unto thee."* (Note that by combining the symbol of Venus to the horns of Diana, the Moon, the result is Mercury) [DD Bryant, The Philosophers' Stone VI, 6 note by PFC]. see [21](21), [180](180), [53](53).

> Rosenroth, in [K.D.L.C.K. p.497] gives: Libanon, and says it is the supreme crown, from its surpassing whiteness, and moreover so called, when it sends down its influence.

---

### [chawlahq](/keys/ChLQ) - חלק
> to divide, apportion; to assign, distribute; to impart, to share; to be smooth, slippery; to create; to separate. The One Ego of all humanity is separated into innumerable personalities.

---

### [chawlawq](/keys/ChLQ) - חלק
> smooth, bald; blank space; as a masculine noun: smooth stone. The "stone" is the union of Father and Son. see [53](53).

---

### [cheleq](/keys/ChLQ) - חלק
> part, portion, share; track of land, lot; smoothness, seductiveness.

Flattering. [Proverbs 26:28](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/26-28.htm): *"A lying tongue hates those it hurts, and a flattering mouth works ruin."*

---

### [leqahkh](/keys/LQCh) - לקח
> instruction, teaching; lesson. metathesis of חלק. It is the goad of spirit ([Lamed](/keys/L)) multiplying through the body cells ([Qoph](/keys/Q)) and making the personality receptive to the divine influence ([Cheth](/keys/Ch)). see [78](78).

> also: לקח to take, take in, take away; to receive, accept; to capture, take possession of; to procure, buy; to bring, fetch. This instruction is our true reception and inheritance. see [1831](1831).

---

### [chametz](/keys/ChMTz) - חמץ
> to leaven, ferment; be leavened, fermented; to be sour; to be red; to be ruthless. Recall that Ayin (tribe of Issachar) corresponds to alchemical fermentation. see [830](830), [130](130), [948](948).

---

### [chanaph](/keys/ChNP) - חנף
> to pollute, to be polluted, be profane, to be godless, to flatter, be hypocritical. The influence of [Ayin](/keys/O), or [Key 15](15), the Devil.

---

### [mawchatz](/keys/MChTz) - מחץ
> He shall smite; to smite through, pierce, wound, severity; to dip. Metathesis of חמץ here reversal (Mem) is put before enclosure (Cheth). Also: severe wound. see 948.

---

### [maytzahck](/keys/MTzCh) - מחץ
> forehead, brow. Seat of memory; or the Moon center.

---

### [ha-kohena ha-gedulah](/keys/HKHNH.HGDVLH) - הכהנה הגדולה
> The High Priestess; [Key 2](2) in Tarot. To remember is to be united to the source.

---

### [menahem](/keys/MNChM) - מנחם
> counselor, comforter; name of the Messiah. [2 Kings 15:17](http://biblehub.com/2_kings/15-17.htm): *"...Began Menahem son of Gadi to reign over Israel."* see [207](207), [7](7). Gadi means "the fortunate one." The plural of "comforter" in Hebrew = [188](188) = "corner-stone". From נחם, [nahem](/keys/NChM), to comfort, give.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Fraternitas R.C.](/latin?word=Fraternitas.R.C.) (Lt)
> Fraternity or Brotherhood of the Rosecross. The Latin signature at the end of the Confessio Fraternitatis.

---

### [Mater et virgo](/latin?word=Mater.et.virgo) (Lt)
> Mother and virgin.

---

### [Perseverantia](/latin?word=Perseverantia) (Lt)
> Perseverance. The mystical title of one of the founders of BOTA.

---

### [Rex Judaeorum](/latin?word=Rex.Judaeorum) (Lt)
> King of the Jews.

---

### [Valle Josophat](/latin?word=Valle.Josophat) (Lt)
> Valley of Josophat. A mystical term in Alchemy and Free Masonry.

---

### [Aurum Potabile](/latin?word=Aurum.Potabile) (Lt)
> Fluid Gold. The radiant fludic solar energy which "informs all bodies" through innumerable "drops" or Yods.

---

### [audi ignis vocem](/latin?word=audi.ignis.vocem) (Lt)
> "I hear the voice of fire." From Thomas Vaughan. see [54](54), [51](51), [33](33).

---

### [concupiscentia](/latin?word=concupiscentia) (Lt)
[lust](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=concupiscentia): desire eagerly/ardently; covet, long for; aim at; conceive a strong desire for; longing, eager desire for; concupiscence; desire for carnal/worldly things;

> *"The will of man divides itself similarly into seven powers... The third is the power of giving them form, realising them so as to satisfy desire--**concupiscentia**"* {[Karl von Eckartshausen, The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary, letter VI](cloud-upon-sanctuary)}

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
