## 140 - One Hundred Forty
> (4x5x7)

---

### [Melakim](/keys/MLKIM) - מלכים
> Kings. The "Kings" are an order of angels in Briah (Creation), attributed to Netzach and the number 7. They are understood to be the Elohim, or 7 Spirits of God. In Assiah, the material world, they are attributed to Tiphareth, which is also Melek, King. They include those human beings who have awakened to conscious awareness that the Ego seated in Tiphareth is the angel, or messenger of the Self in Kether. Thus personal man becomes one of the Melakim or "kings" who rule as God rules. [This union is also represented by דעת ([Da'ath](/keys/DOTh)) = [474](474) > [15](15) = יה, [Yah](/keys/IH), and דעת = + Eye , or + Sun , which should offer little difficulty. Furthermore Tav = Saturn = muladhara (Saturn) chakra, Ayin = Capricorn, ruling the knees and Daleth = Venus]. see [474](474), [7](7), [120](120).

> In Assiah, the "Kings" also refer to the 7 interior metals or 7 principles or forces in the occult constitution of man. Melakim is also associated with the 6 of Swords.

---

### [Chokmah-Binah](/keys/ChKMH-BINH) - חכמה־בינה
> Wisdom-Understanding. It is through combining the wisdom of Chokmah, the Life-force, with the understanding or defining principle of Binah that the Ego is perceived as being one with the Self. Then the personal man becomes one of the Malakim or "Kings" who rule as God rules.

---

### [Matteh Elohim](/keys/MTH.ALHIM) - מטה אלהים
> "Staff of God", or "Rod of Elohim". [Exodus 17:9](http://biblehub.com/exodus/17-9.htm): *"...tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the Rod of God in mine hand."* Said by Moses. see [54](54), [86](86), [345](345), [686](686).

---

### [hamameleka](/keys/HMMLKH) - הממלכה
> "the kingdom". [1 Chronicles 29:11](http://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/29-11.htm): *"Thine, O Lord, is the greatness, and the power, and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty: for all that is in the heaven and in the earth is thine; thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou are exacted as head above all."*

---

### [ayini](/keys/OINI) - עיני
> "mine eye". [Psalm 32:8](http://biblehub.com/psalms/32-8.htm): *"I will instruct thee and teach thee in the way which thou shalt go; I will give counsel, **mine eye** being upon thee."* (or, "I will guide thee with mine eye") see [130](130), [1379](1379), [1749](1749), [433](433).

---

### [saph](/keys/SP) - סף
> sill; entrance, threshold. spelled with prefix Heh in [Judges 19:27](http://biblehub.com/judges/19-27.htm): *"and her Lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house; and went out to go his way: and, behold, the woman his concubine was fallen down at the door of the house, and her hands were upon the threshold."* see [860](860), [1096](1096).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"סף. Every idea of summit, end, finish; anything which terminates consummates, achieves. סף the extremity of a thing, the point where it ceases; its achievement, consummation, end: the defection, the want of this thing: the border, top, summit, threshold: the which commences or terminates a thing; that which is added for its perfection: also reiteration of the same action, an addition, supplement; the final thing where many others come to an end: a time involving may actions, the Arabic [word] has preserved of the radical sense only the idea of a thing reduced to powder, which is take as medicine. The Syriac [word] characterizes every kind of consummation, of reducing to powder by fire."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.411](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/410/mode/2up)]

---

### [tzen](/keys/TzN) - צן
> thorn. In plural, in [Genesis 3:18](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-18.htm): *"Thorns also and thistles shall it (ground) bring forth to thee; and thou shalt eat the herb of the field." Gaskel suggest that his represent evils, sufferings and sorrows: "Sins and suffering shall proceed from the lower nature; and the lower mind (Adam) shall subsist through the produce of the sensation nature and the affections."* [Dictionary of all Scriptures and Myths, p.755] see [790](790).

> Basil Wilburforce writes: *"Each man is the soil in which the hereditary Adam-seed produces thorn and thistle, and the hereditary god-seed produces grape and fig. The two growths in the same individual strive for the mastery, and from the deep contrast between them emerges the perfected life of the child of God."* [Problems, p.81]

> Recall that the rose is surrounded by thorns. Fabre D'Olivet writes of this root: *"צן That which conserves, preservers, put in safety. צן A dwelling where one gathers for shelter; a shield, an urn, a basket; any sort of defensive weapon, etc."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.411](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/434/mode/2up)]

---

### [Alem](/keys/OLM) - עלם
> Forth name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 4th quinance of Leo. Otherwise written עלמיה, [Elemiah](/keys/OLMIH). see [155](155). Called "the concealed and saving", and associated with the angel of the 6 of Wands or the central Ego on the archetypal plane. According to Davidson, Elemiah is one of the 8 Seraphim of the Tree of Life in the Sepher Yetzirah or Book of Formation, ruling over voyages and maritime expeditions. His corresponding angel is Senacher. [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p. 104] see [700](700).

---

### [nawsik](/keys/NSIK) - נסיך
> libation, drink, offering. Used in the plural form in [Deuteronomy 32:38](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/32-38.htm): *"the gods who ate the fat of their sacrifices and drank the wine of their drink offerings [נסיכם, drink-offering-of-them, Interlinar Bible] Let them rise up and help you! Let them give you shelter."*

> Also metal images in [Daniel 11:8](http://biblehub.com/daniel/11-8.htm): *"He will also seize their gods, their metal images [נסכיהם, metal-images-of-them, Interlinar Bible] and their valuable articles of Silver and Gold; and carry them off to Egypt. For some years he will leave the King of the North alone."*

> Also one appointed under libation, hence ruler, prince. [Micah 5:4](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"And he shall arise and rule in the strength of the Lord, in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God; and the people shall return; for now his dominion shall extend to the ends of the earth."* see [130](130).

---

### [netz](/keys/NTz) - נץ
> flower; "hawk". [Job 39:26](http://biblehub.com/job/39-26.htm): *"Doth the hawk fly by thy wisdom, and stretch her wings toward the south?"* The south is the direction of Resh, i.e. the Sun on the Cube of Space. *"Horus, the son of Isis and Osiris, is the God celebrated the Chaldean Oracles when they say 'the God is he having the head of a hawk; he energizes a spiral force...' Horus is a solar deity."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (3rd), p.17] see [950](950)

> Fabre D'Olivet writes of this root: *"נץ. That which reaches its term, end, extreme point: that which is raised as high and spreads as fast as it can be, according to its nature. The Arabic [word] does not differ from the Hebrew in the radical sense. In a restricted sense one understands by the verb [Arabic word], the action of giving a theme, furnishing authority, confirming, demonstrating by text, a argument, etc. נץ. The end of every germination, the flower, and action of blossoming; the term of all organic effort, the feather and the action of flying; the end of all desire; splendor, and the action of being resplendent, glimmering, shining."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.403](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/402/mode/2up)]

---

### [maq](/keys/MQ) - מק
> "rottenness", putridity. [Isaiah 5:24](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/5-24.htm): *"Therefore, as tongues of fire lick up straw, and as dry grass sinks down in the flames, so their roots will decay [כמק, like-the-decay, Interlinat Bible] and their flowers blow away like dust; for they have rejected the law of the Lord Almighty and spurned the word of the Holy One of Israel."*

> Fabre D'Olivet writes: *מק. that which is founded, literally as well as figuratively. The action of being melted, liquefied; growing faint, vanishing."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.393](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/392/mode/2up)]

---

### [pas](/keys/PS) - פס
> end, extremity. [Daniel 5:5](http://biblehub.com/daniel/5-5.htm): *"Suddenly the fingers of a hand appeared and wrote one the plaster of the wall, near the lampstand in the royal palace. The king saw the extremity (i.e. the palm) of the hand as it wrote."*

> Fabre D'Olivet says: *פס. That which comprise only apportion of the circumference or totality of a thing. פס. A part, a face, a phase. Action of diminishing, of breaking into pieces. That Arabic [word] signifies literally to examine minutely.*

---

### [qallay](/keys/QLI) - קלי
> Kallai; a priest [Nehemiah 12:20](http://biblehub.com/nehemiah/12-20.htm): *"Of Sallai, Kallai, of Amok, Eber."*

---

### [me'al](/keys/MOL) - מעל
Above. [Genesis 1:7](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-7.htm): *"And God made the expanse and separated the waters that were under the expanse from the waters that were above the expanse. And it was so."*

Surrender to the One Life (Mem) allows us to invert our view of Bondage (Ayin) and see eternal Justice (Lamed) which is always in operation. On the tree of life, these three paths connect Geburah to Hod to Tiphareth in a perfect equalateral triangle. The Radical Intelligence (Geburah) gives us the basis to behold our own mind with Perfect Intelligence (Hod), and thus view the beauty of the world through the Intelligence of the Separative Influence (Tiphareth).

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [coelum et terra](/latin?word=coelum+et+terra) (Lt)
> Heaven and earth. The entire Universe, or which the vault of C.R. is said to be a compendium, or synthesis (see [56](56) Latin).

---

### [Ordo seclorum](/latin?word=Ordo+seclorum) (Lt)
> Order of the ages. World Order. The last 2 words on the reverse of the Great Seal of the united States. Their numeral identity with coelum et terra hints at a deeper meaning for the mottos: "A new order of the ages" is really "A new Heaven and Earth;" a new conception of the meaning of the words "Heaven" and "Earth."

---

### See Also:

- [14](14)
- [5](5)
