## 141 - One Hundred Forty-One
> (3x47)

---

### [ne'eman](/keys/NAMN) - נאמנ
> Faithful, firm, loyal, lasting, established, reliable, trustworthy. (22nd Path or Lamed).

"In Death, I see rebirth.". See [Key 11: Justice](11)

---

### [laymenehu](/keys/LMINHV) - למינהו
> after its kind [Genesis 1:21](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-21.htm).* "And God created... every living creature... after its kind... and God saw that it was good."* see [74](74), [501](501).

---

### [ammitz](/keys/AmITz) - אמיצ
> strong, mighty [Job 9:4](http://biblehub.com/job/9-4.htm); strength, might [Isaiah 40:26](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/40-26.htm). This indicates the special quality of the influence flowing through the 22nd path, which descends from Geburah.

---

### [ahsaf](/keys/ASP) - אסף
> to collect, gather, assemble, accumulate; put away; store, remove. Also: To gather up, to contract, to take back or away; to take out of the way, to destroy.

---

### [osef, oseph](/keys/ASP) - אסף
> gathering, collection; in modern Hebrew: compilation. Also: stores; ingathering, or harvest. These meanings are connected with the time of year corresponding to Libra, and with the symbolism of the scales.

---

### [awphase, ahfase](/keys/APS) - אפס
> to fail, come to an end; cease, to have an end, As a noun (ehfes): naught, cessation, coming to an end, and end (as the ends of the earth), an extremity. As an Adverb: but, however.

---

### [qammah, qahimawa](/keys/QMA) - קמא
> first, former, previous (Aramaic). The ending of each cycle is the ingathering of the harvest.

---

### [Zain-Lamed](/keys/ZIN-LMD) - זינ־למד
> profuse. זל, spelled in full; "of blessed memory." The creator is the "profuse giver" of all.

---

### [Pakiel](/keys/PKIAL) - פכיאל
> Lesser assistant angel of Cancer. Cancer is maternal, receptive, domestic, ruled by the Moon or subconsciousness, suggesting where the ingathering of the harvest is made. see [Key 7](7).

---

### [Samael](/keys/SMIAL) - סמיאל
> "Venom of God". Alternate spelling. see [131](131). "He is also the angel of death, which destroys men with a single drop of poison." [A.E. Waite: Holy Kabalah, p. 276]

---

### [Keveqiah or Chavakiah](/keys/KVQIH) - כוקיה
> "God who gives joy". 35th Shemhamphorash; angel of the 4 of Pentacles (Chesed of Assiah). 171°-175°. Aploso, Mercury. April 23, July 4, September 14, November 25, February 5. To regain the grace of those one has offended. [Psalm 116:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/116-1.htm): (Dilexi quoniam exandiet dominus vocem orationis meaz) 11:20-11:40 AM. Rules wills, successions, and all financial agreements which are based on friendship. It favors peace and harmony in family life. Persons born: love to live is peace with all the world, even at the expense of his own interest; he makes it his business to recognize the fidelity and the good offices of those who are attached to his service. see [965](965), [1525](1525), [126](126).

> Godwin gives: angel of the 5th quinance (21°-25°) of Capricorn; angel by day of the 4 of Pentacles. This represents the operation of Jupiter or cosmic memory in the physical world of action.

---

### [mitzeaw](/keys/MTzVH) - מצוה
> precept, law; the commandments. [Psalm 119:96](http://biblehub.com/psalms/119:96.htm): *"to all perfecton I see a limit; but your commands are boundless."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Solve et coagula](/latin?word=Solve+et+coagula) (Lt)
> Dissolve and coagulate. The summary of the entire alchemical process. In some versions of Tarot, solve, dissolve, is inscribed on the right hand of the devil in [Key 15](15), and coagula (literally, to curdle) is written on his left arm. In [Key 11](11), the sword corresponds to solve. The scales, for weighing and measuring ponderable substance, stand for coagula. The hidden operation of alchemy is a modification of the blood serum, of its albumin (which is used extensively for clarifying liquids), by coagulation, directed by subconsciousness, under the immediate control of "Mercury."

---

### See Also

- [6](6)
