## 142 - One Hundred Forty-Two
> (2x71)

---

### [el ha-ehben ha-gedolah](/keys/AL.HABN.HGDVLH) - אל האבן הגדולה
> Upon the Great Stone. *"And the Levites took down the ark of the Lord (IHVH), and the coffer that was with it, wherein the Jewels of Gold were, and put them on the Great Stone."* [1 Samuel 6:15](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/6-15.htm).

---

### [belial](/keys/BLIOL) - בליעל
> Worthlessness, badness, wickedness; nothingness; destruction. Compare this with the negative meanings of the title and symbolism of Key 0. In later Hebrew and in the New Testament, Belial is equivalent to Satan.

---

### [be-anay](/keys/BOINI) - בעיני
> "in the eyes" (of IHVH). [Genesis 6:8](http://biblehub.com/genesis/6-8.htm). *"But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord."*

---

### [zolale ve-sobay](/keys/ZVLL.VSBA) - זולל וסבא
> a glutton and drunkard. [Deuteronomy 21:20](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/21-20.htm): *"...this our son is stubborn and rebellious, he will not obey our voice, he is a glutton and a drunkard."* see [111](111), [831](831), [901](901).

---

### [Hiddekel](/keys/ChDQL) - חדקל
> One of the four rivers of Eden, said to go "toward the east of Assyria." [Genesis 2:14](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-14.htm). Associated with the [11th path](11) of [Aleph](/keys/A) (associated by some with the river Tigris).

> Fabre D'Olivet spells the name הקדל [Heddekel](/keys/HDQL), and comments: *"The name is formed of two words הדה (#[14](14)) emitting, propagating, and קל light, rapid. It is used in the intensive form."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored (Cosmogony of Genesis), p.81](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/80/mode/2up)]

> According to Gaskell: *"The symbol 'Hiddekel' stands for the astral plane on which the personality develops, becoming as it were, a dawn of consciousness-light in the east-precursor of the rising of the higher self (Sun) in the soul."* [Dictionary of Scriptures and Myths, p.359]

> Swedenburg says: *"The river Hiddekel is reason, or the clearness and prespecuity of reason."* [Arcana Celestia to Genesis II]

---

### [makhmaddim](/keys/MChMDIM) - מחמדים
> desires, delights, precious things (Fire plus Water). see [92](92), [702](702). [Canticles 5:16](http://biblehub.com//.htm)

---

### [pechadim](/keys/PChDIM) - פחדים
> loins, thighs, testicles. Plural of Pachad ([92](92)). The seat of virile strength or Geburah as the sphere of Mars, which rules the reproductive functions governed by Scorpio. see [1200](1200), [98](98).

---

### [bebekoli](/keys/BQLI) - בקלי
> to my voice. [Exodus 19:5](http://biblehub.com//.htm): "Now therefore, if you will indeed harken to my voice and keep my covenant; then you shall be a peculiar treasure to me above all people..." see [98](98), [136](136).

---

### [balaam](/keys/BLOM) - בלעם
> a stranger. In the Old Testament stands for the unavailing curse of the heathen enchanter; in the New Testament he is the type of the tempter to idolatry, especially that form of it in which lust plays a large part. The unconscious qualities of a heathen soothsayer and a man touched by the spirit of the Lord [Standard Bible dictionary]

---

### [Asmodel](/keys/ASMVDAL) - אסמודאל
> Angel ruling the sign Taurus and geomantic intelligence of Taurus.

---

### [Baalam](/keys/BOLM) - בעלם
> Night demon of the 3rd decanate of Leo.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Sinus Arabicus](/latin?word=Sinus+Arabicus) (Lt)
> The Arabian Gulf. From the Fama, the Latin for the Arabian Gulf. It is a symbol of what our Brother and Father must cross to come to Egypt. Arabia means "sterile" and refers to the purification and sublimation of the Mars-Force during a period of temporary celibacy, before the insight into the secrets of nature (Egypt--the subconscious realm) is realized.

---

### [structores](/latin?word=structores) (Lt)
> builders. see [108](108), [273](273).

---

### [philosophus](/latin?word=philosophus) (Lt)
> One versed in philosophy; a philosopher. Corresponds to 4=7 Rosicrucian grade of initiation, associated with Netzach (Victory), sphere of Venus on the Tree of Life. see [148](148). The philosophus seeks to develop within himself a philosophy of life which expresses the unity of all things in his every day affairs. see [85](85), [103](103), [100](100) (Latin).

---

### [aqua sapientum](/latin?word=aqua+sapientum) (Lt)
> Water of the Wise. This is the Universal Mercury. see [36](36), [106](106).

---

### See Also:

- [7](7)

