## 146 - One Hundred Forty-Six
2x73.

---

### [Suph](/keys/SVP) - סוף
> End, close, to limit, to perish. In the Chaldee (Aramaic) signifies "to be fulfilled." These nouns are derived from a verb meaning "to erase," or "to perish." Thus the struct meaning of Ain Suph is "not perishable" or "never ending."

S=Prop V=Nail P=Mouth. Silence. The mouth nailed and barred shut. Also: mortality.

---

### [Baba Qamah](/keys/BBA.QMA) - בבא קמא
> The First Gate [K.D.L.C.K. p184](http://www.hermetics.org/pdf/KabbalahUnveiled.pdf). The primary activity which begins the creative process is the establishment of the field of apparent limitation. The entrance of the No-Thing into the Something is through the fixation of a field in which to manifest itself. Relates to the meanings of [Key 1](1).

---

### [Olahm](/keys/OVLM) - עולם
> something hidden; time immemorial; antiquity, hidden times (the past); eternity, the world. The true nature of this field is a mystery, but one which is somehow related to our conceptions of time and duration. The field is the field of eternity, and this eternal arena of the Life-power's self-expression is the true "world." Signifies primarily hidden times, time long past; but has the same meanings as the Greek word Aeon, the Latin Mundus, and the English "world." Here it is the "universe," which better indicates the whole cycle of manifestation as a space-time continuum. See [207](207), [1577](1577). Also means long duration; futurity, forever, always, continuous everlasting; the here and now. *[Gematria PFC]*

> *[Genesis 9:12](http://biblehub.com/genesis/9-12.htm) "And God said to Noah, this is the sign of the covenant which I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you, for **perpetual** generations."*

> *[Ecclesiastes 3:11](http://biblehub.com/ecclesiastes/3-11.htm) "He has made everything beautiful in its time; he has also made the **world** dear to man's heart, so that no man can find out the works which the Lord has done from the beginning to the end."* see [706](706), [536](536), [1192](1192), [632](632), [861](861) (Gr).

O=Eye V=Nail L=Ox-Goad M=Waters. "You can lead an Ox to water, but you can't make him drink..." What is hinted at in this sequence is that the desire for a just universe leads us to look beyond surface appearances for hidden meanings which lie underneath.

---

### [Jehovah Nissi](/keys/IHVH.NSI) - יהוה נסי
> Jehovah the Marvelous. [Exodus 17:15](http://biblehub.com/exodus/17-15.htm): *"And Moses built an alter and named it **The LORD is my Banner**"*

---

### [kammah ve-lebavah](/keys/ChMH.VLBNH) - חמה ולבנה
> Sun and Moon. see [53](53), [87](87).

---

## Latin/Greek

---

### [Trygono Igneo](/latin?word=Trygono+Igneo) (Lt)
> Triangle of Fire. A very old symbol of Spirit. It appears in the Fama: *"It links up with the Lamb symbolism which is related to the Hindu God, Agni, the personification of the powers of fire. This **Trigono Igneo** [sic] is also connected with the Symbolism of the Great pyramid, which the ancients Egyptians called 'the Light' and which is a stone emblem of the eternal flame. That the same symbol appears twice on the reverse of the Seal of the U.S. (as an unfinished pyramid, and as a radiant triangle enclosing an eye) is another evidence that the structure of government intended by the founders of the American Republic presented itself to their minds as a piece of Egyptian Masonry. In this connection we should remember that the Rosicrucian are often termed fire philosophers."* [True and Invisible (Weiser) p. 88](https://archive.org/stream/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985#page/n95/mode/2up/search/igneo). see [134](134) Lt, [88](88), [46](46), [56](56), [74](74) Lt,

> Assuredly they have been the uppermost point in *Trygono igneo*, whose flame should now be more and more brighter, and shall undoubtedly give to the world the last light. *[Fama Fraternitatis]*

Also: "[His Fiery Sting](https://translate.google.com/#la/en/trygono%20igneo)" (*Trygono* actually translates to "stingray").

---

### [Libertas Evangeli](/latin?word=Libertas+Evangeli) (Lt)
The Gospel of Freedom

---

### [fraternitatis](/latin?word=fraternitatis) (Lt)
Fraternity. See [165](165), [241](241)

---

### See Also:

- [11](11)
