## 148 - One Hundred Forty-Eight
> (4x37)

---

### [Netzach](/keys/NTzCh) - נצח
> Victory, eminence; juice of grapes, to shine; eternity [1 Chron. 29:11 and Isaiah 25:8]. Seventh Sephirah. Overcoming ignorance. Opposite and complement of Hod. The original signification of this noun is "brightness, clarity." Sometimes it is translated "splendor, glory," "sincerity" or "truth." Occasionally it has the connotation of perpetuity or everlastingness. Often it conveys the idea of completeness or perfection, its use in this sense being comparable to the English "clear," which has the same basic meaning of brightness. The most usual meaning of Netzach is "Victory." In 1 Chronicles, 29:11, in that Prayer of David which is a brief summary of the main points on the Tree of Life. In Isaiah 25:8 Netzach is translated "victory." "He will swallow up death in victory." Furthermore, the pronoun "He" in this passage refers to Jehovah Tzabaoth, the Lord of Hosts, specially assigned to Netzach in Qabalah. As the Occult or Hidden Intelligence it suggests the idea that the one life is a power that is perfectly successful and cannot fail, as a whole or in any detail. The victory for man has to do with the control and direction of reproductive (Mars) force, by the practice of meditation and then applied to definite forms of cultural activity transforming appearances of failure into evidences of victory, by control of desires, conserving physical energy and supplying the bloodstream with strength to manifest the higher powers. Tzaddi = Fishhook, that which lifts the fish, Nun, from the water, raises the reproductive power from subconsciousness to self-consciousness-meditation. Cheth = field, enclosed by a fence; limitation of a specific area for purposes of cultivation. Ojas, literally "the illuminating, the brilliant" is the root meaning of Netzach. Ojas is "the highest form of energy attained by a constant practice of continence and purity. see 710, 525, 93, 64.

> "See, then, in the cube, BN, MLK and ADM conjoined, as they are in the names of Tiphareth, and the essence of these three is 7 also. For they add to 187. Thus the secret of Tiphareth is 7, or Netzach...The Victory begins with Nun, continues with Tzaddi, and ends with Cheth. See here the power, the method, and the result. The power of Scorpio, raised by the meditation which unveils Truth, brings about the consciousness that personality is the vehicle, or Chariot, which is also the lodge, and the house, temple, or palace of influence. [13th Communication]

> "The doctrines of the grade of Philosphus are six in number, and are derived from the letters of the words NTzCh, Netzach, or victory, the name of the 7th circle on the Tree of Life, and NSThR, Nesether, meaning occult, which designates the special mode of consciousness associated by Qabalist with the 7th circle... The three letters of NTzCh, correspond to the three great truths of occult philosophy. the word Netzach itself clearly shows that this is a success philosophy, an interpretation of experience have for its fundamental postulate the idea that the cosmic undertakings a success.. 1. Death, Key 13 (Nun): the dissolution of form is a fundamental tendency of the cosmic process. All things change. All conditions pass away. No form ever remains fixed. Existence is a stream, a series of waves, an eternal movement... 2. The Star, Key 17 (Tzaddi): the cosmic process is a meditation. The Life-power, is a conscious energy, flowing through succession of forms, related to a particular object. Each cycle of the Life-power's self-expression has some definite objective, and from the beginning of a cycle to its completion, there is no moment in which that objective is forgotten or otherwise obscured... 3. the Chariot, Key 7 (Cheth): the Life-power is perfectly successful at every stage of the cosmic process. All appearance of failure are illusive. The One Identity is the victor before ever the battle is joined." [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p. 320-321, 326-327]

---

### [natzach](/keys/NTzCh) - נצח
> to shine, sparkle; to be victorious.

---

### [netzachah](/keys/NTzCh) - נצח
> to superintend, act as overseer; to lead in
music, glorify, make illustrious.

---

### [nutzach](/keys/NTzCh) - נצח
> to be defeated, be vanquished.

---

### [netzach](/keys/NTzCh) - נצח
> to be.

---

### [Nakhatz](/keys/NChTz) - נחץ
> to press, to urge; to be urgent, to require haste. This word is a rearrangement of the letters of [NTzCh], is related also to the 7th Sephirah as the seat of desire and passion.

---

### [Beniy Elohim](/keys/BNI.ALHIM) - בני אלהים
> Sons of God, Sons of the Elohim. The angelic choir or order of angels associated with Hod, in Assiah, the material world. The same choir is attributed also to Hod in Briah, the creative world.

---

### [Eloha Elyah, Elahhah Illayah](/keys/ALHA.OLIA) - אלהא עליא
> The Most High God. (Daniel 3:26). Aramaic. Eloha is 37, the number of IChIDH, Yekhidah, the Supreme Self. Elyah adds to 111, the number of the letter-name Aleph. Here is a suggestion that the 7th Sephirah partakes of the combined powers of Kether, focussed in Yekhidah, and of the path of Aleph, which links Kether to Chokmah. MAZNIM Moznaim. balances, scales; sign of Libra; in later Hebrew, horizontals. The later meaning is a clue to the significance of the term "horizontals" in Masonic symbolism. Note that it is derived from the horizontal position of the beam of a balance when the weights in the pans are equilibrated (see 158, 302).

---

### [Eheyeh Yah Jehovah Elohim](/keys/AHIH.IH.IHVH.ALHIM) - אהיה יה יהוה אלהים
> a Divine Name which combines the names of God ascribed to Kether, Chokmah and Binah. Thus it stands for the Supernal Triad of Sephiroth, and by its correspondence to NTzCh, intimates that in some sense the 7th Sephirah is a synthesis of the powers of the Supernal Triad. "The four divine names whose total value is 148 refer to Kether (AHIH), Chokmah (IH) and Binah (IHVH ALHIM), so that the number 148 is a numerical symbol of the divine powers concentrated in the Primal Will, Wisdom, and Understanding. The concentration of these forces is what produces the eternal victory (NTzCh) of the Life-power. The victory is occultly related to the fact that in reality the Life-power does nothing and so is always withdrawn from activity. This is the most difficult doctrines, for it seems to contradict the teaching that the Life-power [text ends]

---

### [chamaq](/keys/ChMQ) - חמק
> to enclose, encompass.

---

### [khesaph](/keys/ChSP) - חסף
> clay [Daniel 2:33]. see 868.

---

### [khoseph](/keys/ChSP) - חסף
> revelation; laying bare.

---

### [khahsaf](/keys/ChSP) - חסף
> to lay bare, reveal; draw water.

---

### [sakhaph](/keys/SChP) - סחף
> to sweep, or scrape, away; to bear down, to cast down. Compare with the symbolism of Key 16 which represents the primary projection of desire-force from the seventh Sephirah.

---

### [pesakh](/keys/PSCh) - פסח
> Literally, "a skipping over", the technical term translated Passover in the English Bible. The Passover festival, Passover sacrifice. PSCh: to limp, hobble.

---

### [qemakh](/keys/QMCh) - קמח
> flour, meal. Also: to pound, grind. The relation of this word to Netzach, the seat of desire, is an important clue to the inner meaning of Jesus' parable of the leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal. The three measures may be understood to be the three Sephiroth immediately below Tiphareth on the Tree. These three are the seats of the principles of personal consciousness, and it is they which must receive the "leaven" which comes from above. see [Genesis 18:6], 656 (Greek), 507, 1379, 889, 1919, 1969.

---

### [Adam Mebin](/keys/ADM MABIN) - אדם מאבין
> Man of Understanding [Proverbs 28:2] "For the transgression of a land many are the princes thereof: but by a man of understanding and knowledge the state thereof shall be prolonged." see 45, 102.

---

### [Amaimon](/keys/AMAIMVN) - אמאימון
> Demon King of the north and south. According to the Goetia, the Demon King of the east. see 798.

---

### [Ansuel](/keys/ANSVAL) - אנסואל
> Angel ruling the 11th house of Aquarius.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Spiriti damnati](/latin?word=Spiriti+damnati) (Lt)
> reprobate spirits [Secret Symbols page 30]. This refers to spirits under condemnation because of uncontrolled activities of the desire nature and misuse of the intellect. Yet these aspects of human personality when brought under right direction from above are released from condemnation, that is, from automatic response to deluded self-consciousness.

---

### See Also:

- 13
- 4
