## 149 - One Hundred Forty-Nine
> (prime)

---

### [Elim Chiim](/keys/ALIM.ChIIM) - אלים חיים
> the Living Gods [Deuteronomy 5:26](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/5-26.htm). see [154](154).

---

### [ha-safad](/keys/HSPD) - הספד
> a beating of the breast; a noisy striking.

---

### [heh-sayphed](/keys/HSPD) - הספד
> mourning; funeral oration, obituary.

---

## Latin/Greek:

---

### [Serpentarius](/latin?word=Serpentarius) (Lt)
> The serpent. Mentioned in the Confessio Fraternitatis *"God, indeed hath already sent messengers which should testify his will, to witt, some new stars which have appeared in Serpentarius and Cygus, the which powerful signs of a great council show forth how for all things which human ingenuity discovers, God calls upon his hidden knowledge."* PFC says that the reference to the new stars indicates that the authors of the Confessio had knowledge to esoteric astrology: *"Serpentarius, or Ophiuchus, as it is now called, is a constellation connected with the 1st decanate of Scorpio. It is pictured as a man wrestling with a serpent, and typifies that aspect of the Great Work which has to do with the transmutation of the forces of reproduction... serpentarius is... associated... with the letter Nun (50) [Cygnus with Ayin, 70]... compare this with what has been said heretofore concerning the symbolism of the number [120](120). It is also interesting to note that serpentarius and Cygnus are connected with the beginning of the United States. At the time of the adaption of the Declaration of Independence, according to the official government records, Scorpio was the rising sign... and the 1st decanate of Scorpio, connected with Serpentarius, is therefore in the 1st degrees of the 12th house of that horoscope, the house of occult forces .. these "powerful signs of a great council" were thus actually connected with the new experiment in government which, it may be said, undoubtly owed far more than is generally known to the beneficent influences of the inner school, or invisible Rosicrucian Order."* [True and Invisible, page 47]. see [69](69) Latin.

---

### [Ipsissumus](/latin?word=Ipsissumus) (Lt)
> *"He who is most himself. I my very self. The Rosicrucian Grade of consciousness corresponding to Kether. The grade title agrees with the Qabalist's attribution of יחידה, the One Self to Kether. The Latin word Ipsissumus indicates by its form what we might call the superlative degree of selfhood. It represents the highest possible realization of the meaning of I AM. Qabalists indicate this realization by יחידה, the feminine form of יחיד, Unity. The feminine construction shows that although the I am is One and Alone, it is also conceived in the ageless wisdom as the vehicle for אין סוף אור. As vehicle or receptacle, it is therefore feminine. It is said that there are 1- degrees of this grade in each of the four worlds...Thus we may reckon 40 degrees of this one realization which Rosicrucians call Ipsissimis. It is also said that here on the physical plane there are, at any one time just 10 Human beings in whom this realization of Kether is perfected."* [True and Invisible page 467-68] see [7](7), [620](620), [111](111).

---

### [Ariel](/greek?word=arihl) (Gr) - αριηλ
> Ariel, "Lion of God"; a poetic name for Jerusalem. Septuagint Translation of אריאל ([242](242)) in [Isaiah 29:1](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/29-1.htm): *"Woe to you Ariel, Ariel, the city were David settled! Add year to year and let your cycle of festivals go on."* see [242](242), [586](586), [216](216).

---

### [Akribeia](/greek?word=Akribeia) (Gr) - ἀκρίβεια
> exactness, strictness, extreme accuracy. Written ἀκρίβειαν in [Acts 22:3](http://biblehub.com/acts/22-3.htm) *"I [Paul] am a Jew, born in Tarsus of Cicicia, but having been brought up in this city, at the feet of ?Gamallel?, and accurately instructed in the ancestral law; being a zealot for God, as you all are today."* i.e. Instructed in all the exactness the precise discipline and observance of the traditional law.

---

### [Oikehma](/greek?word=oikhma) (Gr) - οἰκήμα
> a dwelling, house or building. In the New Testament, a prison. written οἰκήματι in [Acts 12:7](http://biblehub.com/acts/12-7.htm): *"And behold, an angel of the Lord stood by him, and a light shone in the building; and striking Peter on the side, he awoke him, saying, 'arise quickly'. and his chains fell from his hands."* see [1672](1672).

---

### See Also:

- [14](14)
- [5](5)
