## 150 - One Hundred Fifty
> (5x5x2x3). The number of days the waters prevailed over the land during the Biblical flood.

---

### [adam oleh](/keys/ADM.OLH) - אדם עלה
> the heavenly man. Of which God is said to have used it as a chariot (MVKBH) Mercavah to descend [Zohar] the divine idea of man is the vehicle whereby God enters into the apparently separated forms of creation [John 1](http://biblehub.com/kjv/john/1.htm). see [151](151), [267](267), [373](373).

---

### [ahl ha-adam](/keys/OL-HADM) - על־האדם
> "the man". [Genesis 2:16](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-16.htm): *"And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat"* (but not of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil). על is here translated "the", but has the usual meaning height, upper part, above. This seems to imply that Adam here is the supernal Adam, of archetypal humanity, before the "fall" from above.

---

### [ayinkah](/keys/OINK) - עינך
> thine eyes [Deut 19:13](http://biblehub.com//.htm), [15:9](http://biblehub.com//.htm). Refers expressly to the divine beneficence, which prospers all human undertaking [Greater Holy Assembly]. (I.R.Q. 652).

---

### [qayam](/keys/QIM) - קים
> stable, enduring, lasting; path of Mem variant spelling. see [160](160), [710](710).

---

### [bekhasaf](/keys/BChSP) - בחסף
> in clay.

---

### [besakhap](/keys/BSChP) - בסחף
> to scrape away.

---

### [Peh/Ayin](/keys/P.O) - פ ע
> Mars in Capricorn.

---

### [qan](/keys/QN) - קן
Nest. [Psalm 84:3](http://biblehub.com/psalms/84-3.htm): *"Yea, the sparrow hath found an house, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, even thine altars, O LORD of hosts, my King, and my God."*

> cell, chamber; nest, bird in a nest; bird offering, the couple of sacrificial birds [Leviticus 12:8](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/12-8.htm): *"...She shall bring... two young pigeons; the one for the burnt offering, and the other for a sin offering..."* The "chamber" refers to the "upper room" or brain center where contact with the "eye" of God is made. The sacrifice of birds suggest that intellect, an airy quality, must be stilled for this to happen. see [800](800).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"קן. this has two sources whose expression are blended, as it were, in one. By the first, it is derived from the root קו, image of the blind force which moves matter, 'united to the augmentative sign Nun; by the second, it springs from the compressive sign Qoph, contracted with the root AN, symbol of all corporeal circumscription; thence, קן that which tends with ardor toward a thing, that which is envious, usurping, vehement, covetous of gain and possession; thence, קן, that which is centralized, concentrated in itself. From these two root קין [Cain] if formed, in which are assembled the opposed ideas of appetent tension and compression, vehemence and closeness, power and density. It contains the central force profound basis, rule and measure of things; also the faculty which seizes, usurps, agglomerates, appropriates and assimilates with itself.*

> *The Arabic [word] although holding to the same root as the Hebrew קן, is however far from preserving of developing so great a number of ideas. Nearly all those which were intellectual have become lost. The verb [Arabic word] which partakes most of the radical sense, signifies literally to forage the iron, to strike it while it is hot; to solder metals, to unite them by means of the forge [Arabic word] is a blacksmith.*

> *קן or קנו (intensive) is a literal and restricted sense a nest, a center, a cane, a measure, reed; an abode, a possession, an acquistion, conquest; a possessor, envious person, rival; envy, hatred, jealously, an affair, property, wealth, etc."* {[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.443](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/442)}

---

### [kahlmudim](/keys/KLMVDIM) - כלמודים
> "as they that are taught" [Isaiah 50:4](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/50-4.htm) *"the Lord God hath given me the tongue of the learned, that I should know how to speak a word in season to him who is weary: he awakeneth morning by morning, he awakeneth mine ear to hear as the learned."*

---

### [yedayonay](/keys/IDOVNI) - ידעוני
> wizard, sorcerer, magician; soothsayer, familiar spirit. [K.D.L.C.K. p.53] *"Ariolus [is a] name for one of the outer shells which are Qlippoth or the pair of impure shells."*

> Note: the root of this word seems to be IDO "to know, learn to know; to perceive, consider." It is interesting to know that the heads of the dragon (Qlippoth) extend as far as DOTh Da'ath or Knowledge. see [474](474).

---

### [nawahl](/keys/NOL) - נעל
> to bolt, bar, lock; to lock up, close. Suggests closing the mind to impure thoughts. Also: to put on sandals, shoes; NOL sandal, shoe, boot. Those used for treading the magic circle.

---

### [Amem](/keys/OMM) - עמם
> the 52nd name of Shemhamphorash, associated with the 4th quinance of Aries, according with Godwin. Also spelled עממיה, [Immamiah](/keys/OMMIH). see [165](165), [710](710). Also עמם [Amam](/keys/OMM), to darken, dim.

---

### [yawsahph](/keys/ISP) - יסף
> to add. [Leviticus 22:14](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/22-14.htm): *"And if a man eats of the holy thing unwittenly, then he shall add a fifth part thereof to it and shall give it to the priest with the holy things."*

> Also in [Isaiah 38:5](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/38-5.htm): *"Go and say to Hezekiah, King of Judah, thus says the Lord, the God of David your father: I have heard your prayer, I have seen your tears; behold, I will add fifteen years to your days."* see [870](870).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Nathanael](/greek?word=nathanahl) (Gr)
> Gift of God. [John 1:49](http://biblehub.com/john/1-49.htm). Greek spelling of a Hebrew name.

---

### [Salvator Mundi](/latin?word=Salvator+Mundi) (Lt)
> Savior of the world [Secret Symbols page 7].

---

### [Jehova Salvator](/latin?word=Jehova+Salvator) (Lt)
> Jehovah Savior. Intimates the identity of the Logos with the supreme reality designated as IHVH (see 26).

---

### [Annuite coeptis](/latin?word=Annuite+coeptis) (Lt)
> "He hath prospered our undertaking." "He" is IHVH, symbolized by the all-seeing eye on the Great Seal of the U.S. see 71, 79, 370 (Latin), 632.

---

### [occultum lapidem](/latin?word=occultum+lapidem) (Lt)
> hidden stone [Secret Symbols page 17]. see 570, 57, 164, 94.

---

### [Omnia in omnibus](/latin?word=Omnia+in+omnibus) (Lt)
> all in all.

---

### [Jesus mihi omnia](/latin?word=Jesus+mihi+omnia) (Lt)
> Jesus is all things to me. A Rosicrucian motto [Fama]. The actual substance of all things in the One Being (see [67](67), [373](373), [46](46) Latin, [326](326), [1480](1480), [2368](2368) Greek).

> The inscription was found engraved on the circular altar in the tomb or C.R. *"The name Jesus signifies 'self-existence liberates'. Thus the Fama by connecting this word of freedom with the word Omnia, signifying 'everything' intimates the characteristic Rosicrucian point-ofview, which is that everything contributes to liberation. The nature of things is to set free, rather than to bind. Thus the motto is the affirmation of the inherent tendency to liberty, at the very heart of the cosmic order. ... Jesus promised to those who would pray 'in his name'. For whosoever truly prays in that name prays in the recognition of the idea the name represents, and he prays effectively who is thoroughly imbued with the thought that the nature of things is liberative, rather than restrictive."* [True and Invisible (Weiser), p. 121]

	.    Iesus     mihi      omnia
	.    67        37        46      = 150, which may be taken as 15 = IH
	.    crucis    HBL       ALHI
	.    BINH      IHIDH

---

### See Also:

- [15](15)
- [5](5)
