## 151 - One Hundred Fifty-One
> (prime)

---

### [adam oleh](/keys/ADM.OLAH) - אדם עלאה
> the heavenly man. variant spelling (see [150](150)).

---

### [meqeveh](/keys/MQVH) - מקוה
> collection, gathering together (of water), the confluence (of waters), pool; reservior; hope; ritual bath of purification. [Genesis 1:10](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-10.htm). The collection of the waters, למקוה (#[181](181)).

> Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.21] gives: The Fountain of Living Waters and cites [Jeremiah 17:13](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/17-23.htm): *"O Lord, the hope (מקוה) of Israel, all who forsake you will put to shame. Those who turn away from you will be written in the dust because they have forsaken the Lord, the spring of living water."*

---

### [qomah](/keys/QVMH) - קומה
> a standing upright, stature, height, man's height; floor, story. The true measure of a man is the extent to which he has been able to raise his consciousness in daily life.

---

### [qna](/keys/QNA) - קנא
> jealous, zealous; zealot, fanatic. As a verb: to be jealous, to be zealous; to be envious.

---

### [neqa](/keys/NQA) - נקא
> clean, pure.

---

### [awnaq](/keys/ANQ) - אנק
> to shriek, cry, groan.

---

### [nawahq](/keys/NAQ) - נאק
> to groan (growing cry). The change (Nun) of Spirit (Aleph) in the bodily organization (Qoph). This implies less resistance than above for positive results.

---

### [Aleph-Heh-Yod-Heh](/keys/ALP.HH.IVD.HH) - אלף הה יוד הה
> Eheieh (I am) spelled in plentitude. The goal of the quest. see [21](21), [111](111), [10](10), [20](20).

---

### [Malaph](/keys/MLAP) - מלאף
> Night demon of 3rd decanate of Aries. This decanate has the rulership of Jupiter and suggest subconscious imbalance, producing the qualities of selfishness, irreligion and lack of ideas. see [871](871). Also called Malphas.

---

### [khane khane lah](/keys/ChN.ChN.LH) - חן חן לה
> "grace, grace unto it". [Zechariah 4:7](http://biblehub.com/zechariah/.htm): *"Who are thou, O great mountain? Before Zerubbabel; thou shalt become a plain, and he shall bring forth the headstone thereof with shoutings, crying, grace, grace unto it."*

> Thomas Troward: *"These considerations bring out into a very clear light one meaning of Daniel's prophecy of 'the stone' cut out without hands, which grew until it filled the whole earth. It is the same 'stone' of which Jesus spoke, and is bound by the inevitable sequence of evolution to become the chief corner-stone; that is, the angular or five-pointed stone in which all four sides of the pyramid find their completion. It is the headstone capping the whole, of which it is written that it shall be brought forth with shoutings of 'grace, grace unto it.'"* [Bible Mystery and Bible meaning, p.141] see [58](58).

---

### [IHVH Elohim IHVH Ehad](/keys/IHVH.ALHIM.IHVH.AChD) - יהוה אלהים יהוה אחד
> *"The Lord (Tetragrammaton) of the Gods, the Lord (Tetragrammaton) is one."* [[Deuteronomy 6:4](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/6-4.htm)]. see [410](410), [951](951).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Heh Kathedra](/greek?word=h+kathhdra) (Gr) - η καθηδρα
> God's seat ("Cathedral").

---

### [Laodikeia](/greek?word=laodikeia) (Gr) - Λαοδικείᾳ
> Laodicia. [Colossians 4:15](http://biblehub.com/colossians/4-15.htm). One of the 7 churches (interior stars) mentioned in [Revelation 1:11](http://biblehub.com/revelation/1-11.htm).

The 7th candelabrum. Spelled Λαοδικείᾳ (#151 or #[161](161)) in [Colossians 4:15](http://biblehub.com/colossians/4-15.htm), and Λαοδίκειαν (#[201](201)) in [Revelation 1:11](http://biblehub.com/revelation/1-11.htm).

---

### [Martha](/greek?word=martha) (Gr) - Μάρθα
> Sister of Mary. [Luke 10:38-42](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Luke+10%3A38-42&version=KJV;SBLGNT): *"(38) Now while they were on their way, it occurred that Jesus entered a certain village, and a woman named Martha received and welcomed Him into her house. (39) And she had a sister named Mary, who seated herself at the Lord's feet and was listening to His teaching. (40) But Martha (overoccupied and too busy) was distracted about much serving; and she came up to Him and said, Lord, is it nothing to You that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her then to help me -- to lend a hand and do her part along with me. (41) But the Lord replied to her by saying, Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things; (42) There is need of (but a few things, or) only one. Mary has chosen the good portion -- that which is to advantage -- which shall not be taken away from her."* Martha represents devoted service, which is apparently slower, but which leads to the same goal.

---

### [Magister Templi](/latin?word=Magister+Templi) (Lt)
> Master of the Temple. corresponds to the Grade 8=3 and to Binah. Implies that the adept is in control of all of his vehicles of consciousness ([84](84)).

---

### English Gematria:

- [distributive](/english?word=distributive) *([Fama Intro p.13](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13/mode/2up))*

---

### See Also:

- [7](7)

