### [dode neheman](/keys/DVD.NAMN) - דוד נאמן
> Faithful friend. see 14, 91.

155 (5x31)

QNH Caneh, cana. a reed, a measuring rod. In Ezekiel 40:5 it is
written QNH and is called a reed for measuring. In the Hebrew
dictionary: reed, stalk, cane; beam of scales; arm, shaft (of
lamp stand); windpipe (Talmudic). The Hebrew name of the City,
cana, where Jesus performed the miracle of changing water into
wine. As a verb it means to purchase, to buy, to possess, to
acquire possessions by a symbolic act. see 72 Greek. Also proper
name of a brook between Ephraim and Manasseth [Joshua 16:8] and a
City in Asher [Joshua 19:8]. see QIN.

ADNI MLK Adonai Melek. Lord King, The Divine Name attributed to
Malkuth. see 90, 65, 671, 496.

"Now, Guph is the body of the Lord, for is not the name of the
Kingdom ADNI MLK, Adonai Melek?...And behold, MIM is 90, and so
is MLK; and thus Yeshua stilled the waters (seas), for he knew
that Adonai Melek is Lord of the Waters. ADNI MLK numbereth 155,
and here is AL in fivefold expression, for AL is 31." Comment:
"AL in five-fold expression relates to man, and his body with its
five senses, thus also to the pentagram, which in magic is
directly connected with Malkuth." [7th Communication] see 31,
386, 90, 89.

"...Guph, the body, the whole holy Temple of the Most High...
standeth in the midst, or center, and in it abideth forever
Adonai Melek (ADNI MLK), our Lord and King, Holy is His Name,
Blessed be He!" [9th Communication]

"In Malkuth is the power of our Lord and King ADNI MLK... Now the
number of ADNI MLK is 155, and to this number correspondeth also
DVDNAMN, the faithful friend, for our Lord King is verily that
friend... Comment: To what is said about ADNI MLK, we may add
that its number among the founders of our Order had special
alchemical significance, because in their Latin gematria it was
the number of LIBERTAS EVANGELII, the Liberty of the Gospels, a
motto mentioned in the Fama, and also the number of ARCANUM
ARCANORUM, the Secret of Secrets." [26th Communication]
AM GLH SVDV Em Galah-Sodoh. "He reavealth His secret" [Amos
3:7]. The initial AM is usually omitted in considering this
gematria. But since AM-GDH is a hyphenated word, meant to be
considered as one word, it is included. Its value 79 is also the
number of BOZ, Boaz, the black pillar also spelt BVOZ (85). see
79, 70, 41, 715.

DID NAMN Dode neheman. faithful friend. see 14, 91.

V-Th-N-Tz Vav-Teth-Nun-Tzaddi. the fixed signs of the zodiac.
Symbolized by the living creatures which are shown in the corners
of Keys 10 and 21. see 564 Latin.

INHLNI yanheleni. He leadeth me [Psalm 23:2] ("He leadeth me
beside the still waters") "still waters", see 55, 654. "he
leadeth me" = he revealeth his secret" = "secret of secrets" =
"the faithful friend".

QIMH qayamah. rising, raising, erection.

QDVMH qadomah. primordial. Adam Qadmon is the primordial or
archetype of humanity. see 318.

TzCh VADVM tzakah ve-adom "(my beloved is) white and ruddy."
[Cant. 5:11]. An alchemical allusion to the white and red stages
of the great work. see 715, 1706 (Greek).

DQNA dakana. the beard [Mathers]. [S.D. 2:1] "The beard of truth.
(That is, now followeth a description of the beard of
Macroprosopus, and its 13 parts, which are made fully described
in the Idrarabba)." Mathers: "The beard is the influx which
descends from the first sephira through all the others.
Macroprosopus is of course, as I have fully explained in the
introduction, the first sephira, Kether, or the crown: also
called the Ancient One." [Kabbalah Unveiled, p.66] see 78.

Greek/Latin

arcanum arcanorum (Lt). secret of secrets. "The Kingdom (Malkuth)
is here, though it is truly the Kingdom of the skies, and its
secret has to do with embodiment, that is to day, with the right
knowledge of what bodies are, and what they are for." [Secret
Symbols page 20]. see 564.

aureum seculum (Lt). the Golden Age. Part of the title of an
alchemical treatise included in Secret Symbols (page 20).

libertas evangelii (Lt). the liberty of the Gospels. In the Fama
written round the circle containing the picture of an eagle, or
scorpio-water. see 564. "...it refers to the 'good news of
freedom' which is the burden of the New Testament. That 'good
news' has for its essential principle the idea represented by the
name Jesus, which means 'the nature of reality is to set free'.
Jesus and Joshua are two forms of the same name, and the Old
Testament tells us that Joshua, who succeeded Moses as leader of
the children of Israel, was the son of Nun. That is, his father's
name was the same as the name of the letter connected by
Qabalists with the sign Scorpio. Just as the leadership of Joshua
follows that of Moses, so does the fulfillment of the ancient law
by Jesus succeed its earlier manifestations of sacrifice.
similarly, after preliminary purifications of yoga and alchemy
(the yoke of the law) [#113] comes the liberation of the good
news which is heard by the initiate through the transmutation of
the scorpio energies. Thus the Rosicrucian allegory tells us that
when brother C.R.C. had overcome the feebleness of his body
during his stay of Damascus [#444] he heard of the wise men at
Damcar [#264], went to their temple, and received from them good
news, not only as to the significance of events that had happened
while he was yet in the closter of the sense-life, but also
concerning the true meaning of the world of nature. This good
news is associated with the eagle, as a symbol of the regenerated
activities of the Scorpio force, connected with the element of
water, always a symbol of purification. Hence we find the
alchemist directing their pupils to wash the matter many times,
and then, say they, the great wonder will appear to you.
Similarly, when this purification is accomplished we have
borrowed strength from the eagle, and have eyes with which to see
and recognize the great truth that every thing in our environment
works for liberty, and not for human bondage." [Paul Case: True
and Invisible, (4th), pp. 208-209] see 326, 106, 700, 50.

### See Also:

- 11
- 2