## 155 - One Hundred Fifty-Five
> (5x31)

---

### [Adonai Melek](/keys/ADNI.MLK) - אדני מלך
> Lord King, The Divine Name attributed to Malkuth. see [90](90), [65](65), [671](671), [496](496).

> *"Now, Guph is the body of the Lord, for is not the name of the Kingdom אדני מלך, Adonai Melek?...And behold, MIM is [90](90), and so is מלך; and thus Yeshua stilled the waters (seas), for he knew that Adonai Melek is Lord of the Waters. אדני מלך numbereth 155, and here is אל in fivefold expression, for אל is 31."* Comment: *"אל in five-fold expression relates to man, and his body with its five senses, thus also to the pentagram, which in magic is directly connected with Malkuth."* [7th Communication] see [31](31), [386](386), [90](90), [89](89).

> *"...Guph, the body, the whole holy Temple of the Most High... standeth in the midst, or center, and in it abideth forever Adonai Melek (אדני מלך), our Lord and King, Holy is His Name, Blessed be He!"* [9th Communication]

> *"In Malkuth is the power of our Lord and King אדני מלך... Now the number of אדני מלך is 155, and to this number correspondeth also דוד נאמן, the faithful friend, for our Lord King is verily that friend... Comment: To what is said about אדני מלך, we may add that its number among the founders of our Order had special alchemical significance, because in their Latin gematria it was the number of LIBERTAS EVANGELII, the Liberty of the Gospels, a motto mentioned in the Fama, and also the number of ARCANUM ARCANORUM, the Secret of Secrets."* [26th Communication]

---

### [Caneh, cana](/keys/QNH) - קנה
> a reed, a measuring rod. In [Ezekiel 40:5](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/40-5.htm), it is written קנה and is called a reed for measuring. In the Hebrew dictionary: reed, stalk, cane; beam of scales; arm, shaft (of lamp stand); windpipe (Talmudic).

> The Hebrew name of the City, cana, where Jesus performed the miracle of changing water into wine. As a verb it means to purchase, to buy, to possess, to acquire possessions by a symbolic act. see [72](72) Greek. Also proper name of a brook between Ephraim and Manasseth [Joshua 16:8](http://biblehub.com/joshua/16-8.htm), and a City in Asher [Joshua 19:8](http://biblehub.com/joshua/19-8.htm). see קין [Cain](/keys/QIN).

---

### [Em-Galah Sodoh](/keys/AM-GLH.SVDV) - אם־גלה סודו
> *"He reavealth His secret."* [Amos 3:7](http://biblehub.com/amos/3-7.htm). The initial אם is usually omitted in considering this gematria. But since אם־גלה is a hyphenated word, meant to be considered as one word, it is included. Its value [79](79) is also the number of בעז, [Boaz](/keys/BOZ), the black pillar also spelt בועז ([85](85)). see [79](79), [70](70), [41](41), [715](715).

---

### [dode nehman](/keys/DVD.NAMN) - דוד נאמן
> Faithful friend. see [14](14), [91](91).

---

### [yanheleni](/keys/INHLNI) - ינהלני
> He leadeth me. [Psalm 23:2](http://biblehub.com/psalms/23-2.htm): *"He leadeth me beside the still waters."* "still waters" see [55](55), [654](654). "he leadeth me" = he revealeth his secret" = "secret of secrets" = "the faithful friend".

---

### [Vav-Teth-Nun-Tzaddi](/keys/V.T.N.Tz) - ו ט ן צ
> the fixed signs of the zodiac. Symbolized by the living creatures which are shown in the corners of [Keys 10](10) and [21](21). see [564](564) Latin.

---

### [qayamah](/keys/QIMH) - קימה
> rising, raising, erection.

---

### [qadomah](/keys/QDVMH) - קדומה
> primordial. Adam Qadmon is the primordial or archetype of humanity. see [318](318).

---

### [tzakah ve-adom](/keys/TzCh.VADVM) - צח ואדום
> "(my beloved is) white and ruddy." [Song of Solomon 5:10](http://biblehub.com/songs/5-10.htm). An alchemical allusion to the white and red stages of the great work. see [715](715), [1706](1706) (Greek).

---

### [dakana](/keys/DQNA) - דקנא
> the beard [Mathers]. [S.D. 2:1] *"The beard of truth. (That is, now followeth a description of the beard of Macroprosopus, and its 13 parts, which are made fully described in the Idrarabba)."*

> Mathers: *"The beard is the influx which descends from the first sephira through all the others. Macroprosopus is of course, as I have fully explained in the introduction, the first sephira, Kether, or the crown: also called the Ancient One."* [Kabbalah Unveiled, p.66] see [78](78).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [arcanum arcanorum](/latin?word=arcanum+arcanorum) (Lt)
> secret of secrets. *"The Kingdom (Malkuth) is here, though it is truly the Kingdom of the skies, and its secret has to do with embodiment, that is to day, with the right knowledge of what bodies are, and what they are for."* [Secret Symbols page 20]. see [564](564).

---

### [aureum seculum](/latin?word=aureum+seculum) (Lt)
> the Golden Age. Part of the title of an alchemical treatise included in Secret Symbols (page 20).

---

### [libertas evangelii](/latin?word=libertas+evangelii) (Lt)
> the liberty of the Gospels. In the Fama written round the circle containing the picture of an eagle, or scorpio-water. see [564](564).

> > *"...it refers to the 'good news of freedom' which is the burden of the New Testament. That 'good news' has for its essential principle the idea represented by the name Jesus, which means 'the nature of reality is to set free'. Jesus and Joshua are two forms of the same name, and the Old Testament tells us that Joshua, who succeeded Moses as leader of the children of Israel, was the son of Nun. That is, his father's name was the same as the name of the letter connected by Qabalists with the sign Scorpio. Just as the leadership of Joshua follows that of Moses, so does the fulfillment of the ancient law by Jesus succeed its earlier manifestations of sacrifice.*

> > *"similarly, after preliminary purifications of yoga and alchemy (the yoke of the law) #[113](113) comes the liberation of the good news which is heard by the initiate through the transmutation of the scorpio energies. Thus the Rosicrucian allegory tells us that when brother C.R.C. had overcome the feebleness of his body during his stay of Damascus #[444](444) he heard of the wise men at Damcar #[264](264), went to their temple, and received from them good news, not only as to the significance of events that had happened while he was yet in the closter of the sense-life, but also concerning the true meaning of the world of nature.*

> > *"This good news is associated with the eagle, as a symbol of the regenerated activities of the Scorpio force, connected with the element of water, always a symbol of purification. Hence we find the alchemist directing their pupils to wash the matter many times, and then, say they, the great wonder will appear to you. Similarly, when this purification is accomplished we have borrowed strength from the eagle, and have eyes with which to see and recognize the great truth that every thing in our environment works for liberty, and not for human bondage."*

> [[Paul Case: True and Invisible, (Weiser), pp. 125](https://archive.org/stream/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985#page/n131/mode/2up)] see [326](326), [106](106), [700](700), [50](50).

---

### [in Trigono Igneo](/latin?word=in+trigono+igneo) (Lt)
"in the Triangle of Fire". A phrase from the Original German edition of the [Fama Fraternitatis](https://archive.org/stream/famafraternitati00andr#page/22/mode/2up).

> *Assuredly they ["painful, worthy men"] have been the uppermost point in **Trygono igneo**, whose flame should now be more and more brighter, and shall undoubtedly give to the world the last light.* [[Fama Fraternitatis](https://archive.org/stream/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985#page/n19/mode/2up/search/igneo)]

---

### English Gematria:

- [purged spirit](/english?word=purged+spirit) *([Fama Intro p.13](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13/mode/2up))*

---

### See Also:

- [11](11)
- [2](2)
