## 158 - One Hundred Fifty-Eight
> (2x79)

### [netzachiy, netzchai](/keys/NTzChI) - נצחי
> Triumphant or Eternal. The Hebrew for Triumphant is [NTzChI], netzachiy. It also means enduring, eternal and sure. This adjective is derived from the noun נצח [netzach](/keys/NTzCh), Victory, the [7th Sephirah](7). What the Hierophant represents is a mode of consciousness which invariably results in triumph or victory. This is because, in dealing with every problem of human experience, it provides those who open their interior hearing to the Voice of the Master an absolute certitude based on eternal principles. The addition of a hand (Yod) to Netzach suggest the practical application of a ripened philosophy.

> *"To make this practical application, one must be master of his own personal instrument. To be serviceable, in order to perform service-that is the law. A hard lesson, this, but one we must all learn throughly, sooner or later... One cannot enter into the state of consciousness which Qabalist call 'triumphant' and eternal intelligence until all the vehicles of personality have been cleansed and mastered. Indeed only a Master of the Temple can experience this degree of consciousness."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p.440]

### [Mem Chaiim](/keys/MIM.ChIIM) - מים חיים
> living waters. Waters of Life. "The fountain of Living Waters" [Song of Solomon 4:15]. Used in the Song as a reference to the Bride, who is also the sister. The Living waters are the fludic, vibratory energy substance we find in "Zion"; and they are the beginning and end of all things, the alchemical Azoth, AZΩת. [In its first state AZΩת, which is also Terra Adamica (Adamic Earth) is the first matter. This is said to be the "father of metals."] A name for the first matter identified with יהוה. Jesus used it as a symbol of the Life directed from within by guidance from the Hierophant.

### [be-Tzion](/keys/BTzIVN) - בציון
> In Zion. when the Old Testament speaks of Zion, its deeper meaning refers to the Center of human personality, the Point Within, where man makes direct contact with the One Reality designated, but not defined by the "name" Jehovah. It is the place in the midst, which we call the adytum, or Holy of Holies. (Zion is a name for the feminine aspect of Yesod). see [156](156).

### [khitziyim, chitzaim](/keys/ChITzIM) - חיצים
> arrows. Symbols of the direct, concentrated application of the Life-force, the entry of intuitive ideas into the mind. Thomas Paine refers to certain thoughts "entering my mind like arrows shot from outside", and says he made it a practice to always pay particular attention to such mental states. *"We find little difficulty with 'arrows', because an arrow suggest the penetrating directness of the concentrated magical will..."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p. 441]

### [cheneck](/keys/ChNQ) - חנק
> to encompass, to choke, strangle, threaten. The verb "to suffocate" refers to the mystical death of personality. Death (Nun) by the construction of the throat (Vav). The total eradication of the sense of separate personality before the true Self can be made manifest to effect the great conjunction "and" (Vav).

> *"... 'to strangle', at first glance has little connection with the idea of the state of consciousness described as 'triumphant', yet further consideration will remind us that in every ancient symbolic initiation the candidate has to simulate death, more than this, strangulation is death by constriction of the throat, and this path... is connected with the letter Vav, and with the sign Taurus, which rules the throat. What is really meant is the total eradication of the sense of separate personality. The false belief is 'self must be strangled before the true self can be made manifest. consider now, the word חנק in connection with the Tarot Keys Ch is represented by The Chariot, Nun by Death, and Qoph by The Moon. Add the numbers of the keys together and you have 38, by reduction 11, the number of Justice. The Chariot represents mastery of the vehicle of personality. Death indicates the transforming agency whereby that mastery is made effective. The Moon is a picture of the slow process of unfoldment. Justice sums up the whole matter. The equilibrium of the balances is unattainable if the bias of false personality tips the scales. To direct the arrows of volition to their mark is impossible while the aim is spoilt by personal considerations. While yet we speak of rights and duties something of the error of separateness remains to be killed out; and there is something yet of the lie of division, to be strangled."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p.441] see [6](6), [331](331), [506](506), [12](12).

### [Mozenin](/keys/MAZNIN) - מאזנין
> scales, balances. Chaldee (Aramaic) word for Scales. Name of the sign Libra and Justice in the Tarot. Intuition enables one to establish this balance of [Key 11](11) (Justice). Libra is under the same planetary rulership as the sign Taurus, which corresponds to the Vav and intuition. Intuition enables one to establish this balance of [Key 11](11).

> *"We find little difficulty... with the word 'balances', since we know by this time that equilibrium is the basis of the Great Work."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p. 441] see [148](148), [108](108), [520](520), [30](30), [74](74).

## Latin

### [Jehovah Salvator](/latin?word=Jehovah+Salvator) (Lt)
> Jehovah Savior (see [150](150)).

### [Quinta Essentia](/latin?word=Quinta+Essentia) (Lt)
> Quintessence. 5th essence. Akin to Azoth and the Hindu Akasha. It stands for the all pervading spirit. This is the more common Latin form. The quintessence and the "Living Waters" are one and the same (see [157](157), [168](168)).