## 162 - One Hundred Sixty-Two
> (2x9x9)

---

### [Benjamin](/keys/BNIMIN) - בנימין
> Tribe of Benjamin. "son of the right hand" [Genesis 49:27](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-27.htm). Related to Sagittarius and alchemical incineration, the 9th stage of the Great Work. Attributed to the letter Samekh, the direction west above, the mental state of zeal or wrath. Incineration is accomplished through the knowledge and conversation of the Holy Guardian Angel. It is the purging and refinement of the desire nature, which then becomes the great medicine. Incineration is the process which consumes the dross of erroneous thinking. It rids subconsciousness of the subtle residue of the thoughts, feelings and action of former lives, leftover from the stage of putrefaction. The sense of separate personality is reduced to absolute nothingness of blackness. Then the idea is substituted that what ever goes on in the field of personal expression is really the reflection of the one reality. Then events in the field of personal experience are found to be direct operations of the one identity. see [536](536), [830](830), [395](395), [259](259), [466](466), [54](54), [95](95), [30](30), [670](670), [501](501), [331](331), [7](7).

> In Jacob's blessing, the words addressed to Benjamin bear on hunting, a characteristic of Sagittarius. Hunting and inquiry are akin. To hunt for clues, to seek for evidence, to examine, to study, to consider-all these are part of the process of verification and experiment of which [Key 14](14) is the Tarot symbol. Jupiter, which rules Sagittarius is connected with research.

---

### [hezeqim](/keys/HZQIM) - הזקים
> strength. Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.22] gives: strength, and cites [Ezekiel 3:8](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/3-8.htm) *"Behold I have made your face strong against their faces, and your forehead strong against their forehead."*

---

### [kawl-abedey Jehovah](/keys/KL-OBDI.IHVH) - כל־עבדי יהוה
> All ye servants of God (Tetragrammaton) [Psalm 134:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/134-1.htm). In this Psalm, the "servants" are those who "stand by night" in the House of the Lord. Elsewhere in the Old Testament, the "servants of IHVH" are identified with angels. עבדי, [Abedey](/keys/OBDI), Servants is [86](86), the number of אלהים [Elohim](/keys/ALHIM), the creative powers called "God" in [Genesis 1](http://biblehub.com/kjv/genesis/1.htm). The word is plural, and in [Revelation 4:5](http://biblehub.com/revelation/4-5.htm) they are called the "seven spirits of God." They are also the "planetary" powers of the 7 interior stars. see [86](86), [2112](2112).

---

### [la-Jehovah ha-milukah](/keys/LIHVH.HMLVKH) - ליהוה המלוכה
> The kingdom is God's. [Psalm 22:28](http://biblehub.com/psalms/22-28.htm). The "Kingdom" is the cosmic order.

---

### [Qole Jehovah](/keys/QVL.IHVH) - קול יהוה
> The Voice of God [Psalm 29:3](http://biblehub.com/psalms/29-3.htm), [Deuteronomy 15:5](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/15-5.htm). In the passage in Deuteronomy, the children of Israel are cautioned to "Harken carefully" to the voice. It is the voice of the Hierophant in [Key 5](5), and 5 is the reduction of [Key 14](14). Every seeker for truth hears that still, small voice. Not all of them know what they hear; but their successes depend of careful listening. see [186](186), [800](800), [120](120), [600](600).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Corpus Christi](/latin?word=Corpus+Christi) (Lt)
> The Body of Christ; A day of festival, commemorated on the first Thursday after trinity Sunday. It has special significance in certain Rosicrucian circles. The "Body of Christ" is not by any means limited to the consecrated host. It is the whole company of the truly devout.

---

### [lapidem angulorum](/latin?word=lapidem+angulorum) (Lt)
> A corner-stone. That which is essential to all building. Refers to Chokmah, the eternal impersonal wisdom which directs the temporal, personal lives of men who hear the voice of understanding (Binah) in the Heart. see [136](136), [67](67), [73](73).

> [Isaiah 28:16 (Vulgate)](https://www.biblestudytools.com/vul/isaiah/28-16.html):

> - *idcirco haec dicit Dominus Deus ecce ego mittam in fundamentis Sion lapidem lapidem probatum angularem pretiosum in fundamento fundatum qui crediderit non festinet*
> - *So this is what the Sovereign LORD says: “See, I lay a stone in Zion, a tested stone, a precious cornerstone for a sure foundation; the one who relies on it will never be stricken with panic."*

> The cornerstone is the "Voice of Tetragrammaton," the Word which is in our hearts, and in our mouths, that we may do it.

---

### [percussion magna](/latin?word=percussion+magna) (Lt)
> The great sound. A reference to "incineration" through "the voice of IHVH". see [272](272).

---

### [In cruce mea victoria](/latin?word=In+cruce+mea+victoria) (Lt)
> In the cross is my victory.

---

### [Typhon-Apophis](/latin?word=Typhon+Apophis) (Lt)
> Typhon is the serpent of destruction, a monster of the primitive world, described sometimes as a destructive hurricane, and sometimes as a fire-breathing giant. The child's uplifted arms in [Key 20](20) give the sign of Typhon, or Apophis, the destroyer. the child represents Vav, the voice of the hierophant which brings rebirth as a result of mastering Typhon-Apophis.

---

### [caput mortuum](/latin?word=caput+mortuum) (Lt)
> A death's head or skull. In alchemy, the residuum after distillation (#[570](570)) or sublimation (#[501](501)); hence, worthless residue. see [55](55), [107](107).

---

### [microprospus](/latin?word=microprospus) (Lt)
Lesser Countenance. See [Tiphareth](/keys/ThPARTh), [1081](1081).

---

### English Gematria:

- [Arthur Milliken](/english?word=Arthur+Milliken). See [82](82) (Arthur), [80](80) (Milliken).
- [gross Errors](/english?word=gross+Errors) *([Fama Intro p.14](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n14/mode/2up))*. see [74](74) (gross), [88](88) (errors).

---

### See Also:

- [9](9)
