## 164 - One Hundred Sixty-Four
> (4x41). The approximate circumference of a circle surrounding a Hexagon having a radius of 26.

### [ma'amiyd](/keys/MOMID) - 
> firm, erect; constituting. (15th path of Heh). The adjective [MOMID] is derived from a verb meaning "to rise, to stand erect." The dominant power in the [15th path](15) is the Mars-force which is the active generative principle in nature. The universal creative force, Chaiah, is identical with the procreative power of living organisms. Mem, waters and Od, eternity is concealed in this word. One is at the center of a boundless ocean (Mem) of a eternally creative mind. Creation is the apparent self-limitation of the Life-power. It is connected with the restrictive materialistic influence of Saturn (Ayin). The aspirant must pass though the 16th path where in the last vestige of false personality is eradicated (Mem). To do nothing for self, but all for the Self, is the test of "sacrifice." To be a conscious channel for the cosmic creative impulse is to know the state of isolation (Yod). One then creates according to the patterns of the universal desire (Daleth).

> *"The secret wisdom of Israel says that the fifteenth path bears the name MOMID (constituting) because it constitutes the substance of creation in pure darkness. A hint of similar import is in the gospel of St. John: 'That which hath been made was life in him (the Logos), and the life was the light of men. And the light shineth in the darkness, and the darkness overcome it not.' The same L.V.X. appears in bible symbology under the figure of the lamb, borrowed form the Hindu symbol of Agni, God of Fire. The lamb refer's to the mystery of the cosmic sacrifice. In one sense the wise have always regarded creation as the selfsacrifice of the Life-power."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p. 443]

### [chadbaquim](/keys/ChDBQIM) - 
> "Ye shall cleave." The constituting Intelligence is one of close union with the Life power. see [724](724).

### [ehben aleph](/keys/ABN.ALP) - 
> the first stone, because Aleph is numerically 1. see [884](884).

### [ehben ophel](/keys/ABN.APL) - 
> the concealed (hidden) stone, a stone concealed. "Stone of thick darkness" in the Jewish translation of [Job 28:3](http://biblehub.com//.htm). see [150](150), [570](570). In Rosicrucian texts Christ is identified with the "hidden stone."

### [ehben pehleh](/keys/ABN.PLA) - 
> the wonderful stone. Wonderful is an adjective applied to Kether and to Christ [Isaiah 9:6]. In all true Rosicrucian texts Christ is identified with the "hidden stone of the alchemist". When man rectifies his conception of the life he finds within himself, he discovers this hidden stone. To ask, "What am I?" is the beginning of the way which leads within. see [111](111). [PLA pillae, means "to search, to make special (vows)"] see [814](814).

### [chitzon](/keys/ChITzVN) - 
> outer, external, exoteric, secular, civil (as apposed to sacred). The manifested cosmos is seen as external to the Self and as proceeding for that Self at the heart of all being. In Tarot the Emperor symbolizes civil authority, as contrasted to the Hierophant as spiritual authority. He suggests material matters-the successful business executive, the result of an orderly use of the mind and directed and focused will. [K.D.L.C.K. p.342] see [814](814).

### [omdim](/keys/OMDIM) - 
> the pillars (Jakin and Boaz). It is the state of perfect equilibrium, understood as the support (pillars) of existence. The magus realizes in himself the union of positive and negative, mercy and severity. The Pillars of Solomon temple were placed outside the entrance.

## Greek/Latin:

### [semen metallorum](/latin?word=semen+metallorum) (Lt)
> Seed of metals. The alchemical term is connected with the planet Mars, ruling Aries, and with the Sun, exalted in Aries. Note its masculine connotation. Both Mars and the Sun are said to be electric and fiery.