## 166 - One Hundred Sixty-Six
> (2x83)

---

### [dam aynahb, dam enab](/keys/DM-ONB) - 
> blood of the grape. The mystical wine of initiation. [Deuteronomy 32:14](http://biblehub.com//.htm): "Butter of ?kine? [curd], and milk of sheep, with fat of lambs, and rams of the breed of Bashan, and goats, with the fat of kidneys of wheat; and thou didst drink the pure blood of the grape." see [44](44), [260](260), [133](133).

---

### [mahown](/keys/MOVN) - 
> dwelling place, temple, lair, den. Relating to more particularly to Malkuth, because of the words [Psalm 90:1](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"Lord, thou has been our dwelling-place in all generation."* Adonai, Lord, is the special divine name of Malkuth. Godwin gives: residence; the 5th heaven, corresponding to Geburah [also cited by Mathers]

---

### [Oliun, Elyon](/keys/OLIVN) - 
> the Most High; the Supreme. A title of Kether. In truth the Kingdom and the Crown, the outermost manifestation and the innermost reality, are one. Thus the "dwelling place" is the "most high." The ground is which the vine grows is the very being of the One reality. Vine, vinedresser, and vineyard are all one. see [140](140), [220](220), [260](260), [197](197).

---

### [eymawnu](/keys/OMNV) - 
> "with us." As in [Psalm 46:11](http://biblehub.com//.htm): "IHVH Tzabaoth (divine name of Netzach) is with us."

---

### [paynehi IHVH](/keys/PNI IHVH) - 
> "the face of the Lord". [Psalm 34:16](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"The face of the Lord is against them that do evil, to cut off the remembrance of them from the earth."* The verse is credited to Peh.

---

### [ayinei IHVH](/keys/OIN IHVH) - 
> "the eyes of the Lord". [Psalm 34:15](http://biblehub.com//.htm) *"The eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, and his ears are open unto their dry."* This verse is credited to the letter Ayin. Not that "eye" is plural. see [156](156). So the eyes of the Lord and the face of the Lord, are equivalent.

---

### [otz](/keys/OVTz) - 
> Uz, the native land of Job. [Job 1:1](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"There was a man in the land of Uz, whose name was Job; and that man was perfect and upright, and one that feared god, and eschewed evil."* see [976](976).

---

### [Napul](/keys/NPVL) - 
> According to Mathers, the Goetic demon by night of the 3rd decanate of Scorpio. Fabre D'Olivet writes of the first two letters: *"NP. Every idea of dispersion, ramification, effusion, inspiration; of movement operated inwardly from without, or outwardly from within: distillation if the object is liquid, a scattering if the object is solid."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.403]

> The 3rd decanate of Scorpio is ruled by the Moon and has the qualities: cool, subtle, abrupt. The influence of the demon suggest subconscious imbalance, resulting in negative aspects of the qualities. the letters of the demon's name suggest a misuse of reproductive power (Nun) through the use of speech (Peh) to put forth false teaching and erroneous intuition (Vav) about the proper works of man (Lamed), i.e. for personal benefit rather than to serve humanity. The Tarot minor arcana attributes this decanate to the 7 of Cups. This represents the operation of Netzach, sphere of Venus, in Briah, the creative world. When illdignified, as here, this can indicate illusionary success, lying and deceit, drunkenness; violence, evil lust. The remedy is to learn that control of emotions is control of the reproductive force.

---

### [chiyib mammon](/keys/ChIIB.MMVN) - 
> Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.498] gives reus mulctae (defendant of the milk-pail?), and says it pertains to the grade of justice, and it can be said that six are the orders of its inferior powers, under the mystery of the Tree of Good, which is Metatron, and evil, i.e. Samael.

---

### [Ba'al hanau](/keys/BOL.ChNV) - 
> "Ba'al was gracious". Variant spelling of a King of Edom, its 7th King, in [Genesis 36:38](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"when Shaul died, Baal-hanan, son of Achbor succeeded him as king."* [Mathers] see [210](210).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [argentum vivum](/latin?word=argentum+vivum) (Lt)
> living silver. The alchemical Mercury, the fludic metal which is the first matter of the Great Work. This "matter" in its white state is "argentum vivum." In its red state, it is DM-ONB, the "blood of the grape," The mystical wine of initiation. see [260](260), [89](89), [77](77) Latin.

> *"Basil Valentine says that Azoth and fire alone are needed in the work of wisdom, and according to Arnold [of Villanova] water is Azoth, which water is argentum vivum. In his figurative language Eliphas Levi calls it the efficient and final principle of the great work. Here is one aspect of the universal medicine in the light of the Rosy Cross."* [A.E. Waite: Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross, p. XXII]

---

### [in Jusu morimur](/latin?word=in+Jusu+morimur) (Lt)
> In Jesus we die. A motto in the Fama. The is the mystical death of the "Old" man. The phrase is one of the inner keys to the mystery of the Eucharist, where the wine stands for the occult "blood of the grape," which brings the exaltation of consciousness, to the awareness of our true dwelling-place, and to the knowledge of our essential identity with Yechidah, the One Self in Kether. This state of consciousness is often described in Sufi poetry as "intoxication". see [260](260), [683](683), [21](21), [50](50), [95](95) Latin.

---

### [Dominus Noster](/latin?word=Dominus+Noster) (Lt)
> Our Lord. see [81](81), [85](85) Latin.

---

### [gradus ad sapientiam](/latin?word=gradus+ad+sapientiam) (Lt)
> the stair to wisdom. see [64](64), [97](97), [638](638).

---

### [lapides inanitatis](/latin?word=lapides+inanitatis) (Lt)
 "stones of emptiness"; [K.D.L.C.K. p.21] says they pertain to Chesed. see [480](480), [411](411), [53](53). Suggests a lack of memory, as Chesed is associated with Jupiter and cosmic memory.

---

### See Also:

 - [13](13)
 - [4](4)
