## 170 - One Hundred Seventy
> (2x5x17)

---

### [Gimel-Vav-Peh](/keys/GML-VV-PH) - גמל־וו־פה
> Guph, the physical body, spelled in plenitude. *"This is thy body is truly the heavenly vision of the goodness of the eternal"* [Book of Tokens]. see [17](17), [89](89).

---

### [makkel](/keys/MQL) - מקל
> wand. (also rod, stick, staff) Instrument of the magical directing power of self-consciousness held by the Magician. The wand equates to the archetypal world or Atziluth. see [576](576).

---

### [mawlahq](/keys/MLQ) - מלק
> to wring off, pinch off; to nip, nip off the neck of a bird, wring. [Leviticus 1:15](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/1-15.htm): *"And the priest shall bring it unto the altar, and wring off his head, and burn it on the altar; and the blood thereof shall be wrung out at the side of the altar."* Metathesis of מקל wand (Mercury). Suggest the dedication of the "head", seat of Mercury to sacrifice impurities in the subconsciousness (blood and altar). Note that Lamed (directing-power, goad) comes before Qoph (sleep, Pisces, organization of body-cells). also: [Leviticus 5:8](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/5-8.htm)

---

### [mayawn](/keys/MOIN) - מעין
> fountain, spring; source, origin [Song of Solomon 4:12](http://biblehub.com/songs/4-12.htm). *"A garden inclosed is my sister, by spouse; a spring shut up, a fountain sealed."* ([spring](/keys/GL), גל, is also used). see [1496](1496), [53](53), [70](70). Ayin = Eye, fountains, outward appearance.

---

### [awnan](/keys/ONN) - ענן
> cloud. [Exodus 13:21](http://biblehub.com/exodus/13-21.htm). *"And the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of cloud, to lead them the way; and by night in a pillar of fire, to give them light; to go by day and night."* see [196](196).

> also ענן to brings clouds, cover with clouds; ענן to use enchantments; to practice magic. [Isaiah 2:6](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/2-6.htm): *"Therefore thou hast forsaken thy people the house of Jacob, because they be replenished from the east, and are soothsayers [Magicians] like the Philistines and thy please themselves [i.e. practice magic] in the children of strangers."* see [380](380), [617](617).

---

### [ammudim](/keys/OMVDIM) - עמודים
> pillars, columns; perpendiculars (i.e. balances). see [120](120)

---

### [Japhia](/keys/IPIO) - יפיע
> "the bright one, the beautiful one". [Joshua 10:3](http://biblehub.com/joshua/10-3.htm). Amorite king of Lachish ("the invincible") conquered and slain by Joshua. Typifies the external shows of materialism, and is ruler of the kingdom which believes material wealth and power to be invincible. see [370](370), [935](935), [56](56), [321](321), [170](170), [216](216).

---

### [kesilim](/keys/KSILIM) - כסילים
> "thick ones". hence fools. Also strong ones, giants, hence the constellation Orion [the hunter], conceived of by the ancients as a giant bound upon the sky; constellations generally, as in [Isaiah 13:10](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/13-10.htm): *"The stars of heaven and their constellations will not show their light. The rising sun will be darkened and the moon will not give its light."* see [730](730).

---

### [Naeomi](/keys/NOMI) - נעמי
> naomi, mother-in-law of Ruth [Ruth 1:2](http://biblehub.com/ruth/1-2.htm): *"And the name of the man was Elimelek, and the name of his wife Naomi ["my pleasantness"]..."* This is the derivative of נעמ [Noam](/keys/NOM), beauty, loveliness, pleasantness. see [160](160).

---

### [sephel](/keys/SPL) - ספל
> bowl, dish, cup. The cup is the magical instrument symbolizing the purifying qualities of "water" or mental substance. [Judges 6:38](http://biblehub.com/judges/6-38.htm). Conceiving a sign of the Lord to Gideon that Israel would be saved: *"And that is what happened. Gideon rose early the next day; he squeezed the fleece and wrung out the dew--a bowlful of water."*

---

### [peles](/keys/PLS) - פלס
> balance, scale. [Isaiah 40:12](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/40-12.htm): *"Who hath measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and meted out heavien with the span, and comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure, and weighted the montains in scales, and the hills in a balance?"*

> [Proverbs 16:11](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"A just weight and balance are the Lord's: all the weights of the bag are his work."*

---

### [Nisan](/keys/NISN) - ניסן
> According to Godwin, the seventh Hebrew month, corresponding roughly to the period when the sun is in Aries.

---

### [ba'al ha-chutam](/keys/BOL.HChVTM) - בעל החוטם
> Master of the Nose. Connected with smell, with discrimination and with Gemini, ruled by Mercury. the path of the Tree of Life ([Zain](/keys/Z)) links the sphere of Saturn ([Binah](/keys/BINH)) and Sun ([Tiphareth](/keys/ThPARTh)). He who is master of discrimination will change Jacob into Israel, will direct the regenerative current from Saturn to Sun, and will not rely on the comforters of the flesh-he will allow the beloved (David) to send his "servants" (Elohim or forces) to search the city (microcosm) for the corner-stone, which is the "pinnacle", or Mercury center.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Nequaquam vacuum](/latin?word=Nequaquam+vacuum) (Lt)
> nowhere a vacuum, not at all a void. One of the 4 Rosicrucian mottos found in the vault of C.R. It corresponds to the sign Leo, the Lion, the element Fire and to Yod in יהוה or the archetypal word, Atziluth, and to the Sephirah Chokmah, root of Fire; one of the 4 Cherubim, the mystical "living Creatures" mentioned in Ezekiel.

> *"This is the negative declaration of the absolute darkness of space, a denial of apparent emptiness, wherever that emptiness may seem to be encountered. Its positive expression is the statement that all space is filled with the divine presence. Since the Bible says, "The Lord our God is a consuming Fire," the divine presence is properly represented by the Lion and Fire. Fire is attributed to the mother letter Shin, whose numerical value is [300](300), which is the value of רוח or as the English Bible puts it, the Spirit of God. In other words, the first motto indicates the fullness of the divine spirit, that all-pervading fire of life which the orientals call prana, as being the truth which necessitates the conclusion that nowhere is there any emptiness whatever."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (Weiser), p. 124] See [72](72), [98](98), [113](113), [155](155), [136](136), [300](300), [574](574) Latin, [1059](1059) Greek.

---

### See Also:

- [17](17)
- [8](8)
