## 171 - One Hundred Seventy-One
> (3x[57](57)). Σ[18](18) = 171.

### [gibeah ha-elohim](/keys/GBOH.HALHIM) - גבעה האלהים
> "Hill of the Elohim," an ancient Hebrew name for Bethel, "The House of God," where Jacob had his dream of the ladder. This ladder is another symbol associated by Qabalists with the Tree of Life. see [731](731).

### [matzil](/keys/MATzIL) - מאציל
> "the beginning of emanation." The 10 distinguishable aspects of reality on the Tree from Ain Soph Aur, the Limitless Light.

### [natzil](/keys/NATzL) - נאצל
> emanating from. The Tree of Life is a diagram of the progressive emanation of the ten distinguishable aspects of Reality from Ain Suph Aur, the Limitless Light. Also: to be withdrawn, narrowed.

### [peniel](/keys/PNIAL) - פניאל
> "the face of God". Name of the "angel" Jehovah (IHVH), the dark antagonist who wrestled with Jacob [Genesis 32](http://biblehub.com/niv/genesis/32.htm). The Zohar identifies the antagonist as Samael. In the Qabalah generally, Peniel is a Friday angel, resident of the third heaven, invoked from the north, and a curer of human stupidity. He is also one of the messengers of the planet Venus. In Genesis, Peniel is a place-the hallowed place where God revealed himself to Jacob face to face. [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.222]. see [161](161).

This is also the pineal gland, within the human brain.

### [Pelain](/keys/PLAIN) - פלאין
> Lesser angel governing the triplicity of night of Aquarius. The name suggest the power of action (Peh) breaking out of old forms (Aleph), meditating the divine will (Yod) into an eternal pattern of light-bearing, which is the brotherhood of man (Vav). see [821](821).
