## 175 - One Hundred Seventy-Five
> (5x5x7). Constant summation of the lines of a magic square of Venus.

---

### [deyooknah](/keys/DIVQNH) - דיוקנה
> Phantom, shadow-image, likeness, replica. The Zohar says: *"At the time of accomplishment of the union below, the Holy one, blessed be he, sends a phantom or shadow image, like the likeness of a man. It is designed in the divine image [TzLM, Tzelem]...and in that Tzelem the child of man is created...in this Tzelem he develops, as he grows, and it is with this Tzelem, again, that he departs from this life."*

---

### [ha-lebanah le-ehben](/keys/HLBNH.LABN) - הלבנה לאבן
> brick for stone [Genesis 11:3](http://biblehub.com/genesis/11-3.htm). In the story of the Tower of Babel, the word לבנה, [bricks](/keys/LBNH), is spelled exactly the same as the word for moon. This refers to the functions of the automatic consciousness in Yesod, and in contrast to אבן, [stone](/keys/ABN), a verbal symbol of the union of the Ego in Tiphareth with Chokmah. "Brick for stone" means the substitution of the irrational desires of the animal nature for the impulses from above. The result is what is pictured in [Key 16](16) and the disaster related in the Biblical allegory. see [87](87).

---

### [Jakin-Boaz](/keys/IKIN.BVOZ) - יכין בועז
> The two pillars, which were set up in front of Solomon's temple. A symbol of the balancing of the pairs of opposites, or polarities. see [90](90), [85](85), [169](169), [825](825).

---

### [enniquah](/keys/INIQH) - יניקה
> young shoot, sapling. Also: suction, absorption, sucking. The growth of the soul is as a young shoot, absorbing its building material form life.

---

### [macpehlah](/keys/MKPLH) - מכפלה
> duplicity, deception. As a proper name, the field where Abraham's cave was. [Hermetic Museum I, p.58] Carries the same idea of substitution as "brick for stone." see [890](890). In [Hermetic Museum I, p.58] machpelah, (Nature) *"She lives in gardens, sleeps in the double cave of Abraham, in the field of Hebron, and her palace is in the depths of the red sea, and in transparent caverns"* Paul Case: MKPLH "duplicity" = rebis = [175](175), a Venus number.

---

### [nefilah, nephilawh](/keys/NPILH) - נפילה
> a falling, slipping, defeat. A quantity of seed required for a field. The seeds of "bricks" should be replaced by that of "stone".

---

### [aqah](/keys/OQH) - עקה
> pressure, trouble, constraint, oppression. The result of imbalance.

---

### [Kadmael](/keys/QDMAL) - קדמאל
> The Spirit of Venus. The "shadow-image" of God is perfected in man by being receptive to his true desires and perfecting them through mental imagery. see [90](90), [85](85), [169](169), [49](49), [1225](1225).

---

### [kol adam](/keys/QL.ADM) - קל אדם
> the voice of Adam. Metathesis of קדמאל. Here the "voice" of intuition in man is linked to his powers of linkage through creative imagination. see [28](28), [7](7), [70](70), [700](700), [735](735).

> [Daniel 8:16](http://biblehub.com/daniel/8-16.htm): *"And I heard a man's voice between the banks of Ulai, which called, and said, Gabriel, make this man to understand the vision."*

---

### [VIPGOV](/keys/VIPGOV) - ויפגעו
> and they met.

---

### [LMINHM](/keys/LMINHM) - למינהם
> after their kind.

---

### [LMOLH](/keys/LMOLH) - למעלה
> on High [Exodus 25:20](http://biblehub.com/exodus/25-20.htm). *"And the cherubims shall stretch forth their wings on high, covering the mercy seat."*

---

### [HONN](/keys/HONN) - הענן
> the (Shekinah) Cloud [Genesis 13:22](http://biblehub.com/genesis/13-22.htm).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [consummatum est](/latin?word=consummatum+est) (Lt)
> It is finished. The traditional seventh utterance of Jesus on the cross.

---

### [Microprosopus](/latin?word=Microprosopus) (Lt)
> Lesser Countenance, Little face. A title of Tiphareth ([Zauir Anpin](/keys/ZOIR.ANPIN)).

---

### [minutum mundum](/latin?word=minutum+mundum) (Lt)
> little world. In the Fama this designates a mysterious object discovered in the vault of C.R. In certain Rosicrucian societies a term applied to various colored diagrams of the Tree of Life. Closely related to man as the microcosm. see [132](132).

---

### See Also:

- [13](13)
- [4](4)

