## 177 - One Hundred Seventy-Seven
> (3x59)

---

### [Gan Ayden](/keys/GN.ODN) - גן עדן
> "garden of delight," Garden of Eden. Refers to the Vav, 16th path of Wisdom. It is the garden in which grow the lilies and roses at the Magician's feet and the Empress sits. Both gan and ehben are numerically [53](53), intimating that the both stand for the state of conscious identification of the EGO with the cosmic, or universal SELF. They represent the state of Consciousness from which human personality is driven when it falls into the delusion of separateness resulting from eating the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge. It is a state of being preceding individualized consciousness, a state of ignorance of good and evil. see [53](53), [124](124), [508](508), [122](122), [315](315).

> > *The Stone is the Garden, and the Garden is the place of delight. That is, אבן is גן, and גן is עדן, for the Stone is the union of the son with the Father, and since אבן and גן are both [53](53), the Stone is the Stone of Eden, as is the Garden. Now, Eden signifieth delight, or pleasure, and its number, being [124](124), is a fourfold [31](31). That is, אל multiplied by 4; and since [4](4) is Daleth, this is the development of the power in Chesed to which אל referreth. And thus is it seen that the power of Daleth, which is the power of Nogah, is what multiplieth the strength of Chesed into delight. For again we say, the stone and the Garden are one, and as the Stone is the union of Chokmah and Tiphareth, so also is the Garden the same union; and from union cometh delight. Never is there delight in separateness. Only when Father and Son are conjoined is there delight.*

> > *(N.B. There is here a double veil. For because בן and אימא are both [52](52), the conjunction of אב and בן implies the conjunction of אב and אימא. בן and אימא are identical, but either אב and בן, or אב and אימא may be in the perfect union intimated by אבן. P.F.C.) Now, of this conjunction is גן the sign, because ג is the Uniting Intelligence, and נ is the Imaginative Intelligence. ג uniteth Kether to Tiphareth, and נ uniteth Tiphareth to Netzach. ג is the Moon. נ is Mars in Scorpio. Add these in our Rota and they make [15](15), which is the glyph of the Renewing Intelligence that linketh Tiphareth to Hod.*

> > *Now see. In Rota, 15 is the Adversary, but his number is the number of יה and the number also of הוד, and his path beareth the number of Tetragrammaton, which is the special name of Tiphareth. For he is the Life in Chokmah, and Adam, the King, in Tiphareth, and he is also the Splendor of the Mercurial Work.*

> > *Thus, among the letters, that of the Renewing Intelligence beginneth עדן, to be followed by the letter of the Luminous Intelligence which linketh Chokmah to Binah, and "delight" (עדן) is completed by the letter נ, which is also the last letter of אבן and of אין; and thus is the special sign of the fifty gates of Binah. Now, נ linketh the Sphere of the Sun to the Sphere of Venus, and thus in גן you may see the whirling motion of Kether descending to the Sphere of the Sun, and projecting itself into the Sphere of Venus.*

> > *This, in the Rota is the garden of the Magician; and what is the soil of that garden if it be not identical with אבן, the Stone? And thus do you see that the Stone and the Garden are really אימא, the Mother, and, behold! אימא and בן are one in numeration.*

> > *This hath been said long ago by the Companions, for have they not written that in Binah, בינה, which herself is אימא, are conjoined the letters בן, designating the Son, and יה, representing the Father? Now, בן is, in the Rota, 1 and 13, and the sum of these is 14, the Rota number of the Intelligence of Probation. For nothing can be known until it is tried, and in union, the Holy Guardian Angel effecteth that union. Here men fail to understand.*

> [The 17th Communication, 1947]

---

### [El olahm](/keys/AL.OVLM) - אל עולם
> "The everlasting God". [Genesis 21:33](http://biblehub.com/genesis/21-33.htm): *"And Abraham planted a grove in Beersheba, and called there on the name of the Lord, the everlasting God."* Abraham means "Father of many nations"; Beersheba means "seven wells." see [248](248), [575](575). The path of Vav is the Triumphant and Eternal Intelligence. The Garden of Eden is in the eternal now.

---

### [zawahq](/keys/ZOQ) - זעק
> to cry out for help, to cry, cry out, call. To return to the garden one must invoke the highest.

---

### [awqabah](/keys/OQBH) - עקבה
> subtility. One "ascends again to heaven, suavely, and with great ingenuity." [Emerald Tablet]

---

### [maluiy ha-maluiy](/keys/MLVI.HMLVI) - מלוי המלוי
> plenitudes of plenitudes. The fullness of the indwelling spirit.

---

### [Sagdaloy](/keys/SGDLOI) - סגדלעי
> Lesser angel governing triplicity by day of Capricorn. This is the zodiacal sign where Mars is exalted, and "day" indicates acts of self-conscious attention. see [70](70), [130](130), [Key 15](15).

---

### [Adon ha-adonim](/keys/ADVN.HADVNIM) - אדון האדונים
> Lord of Lords. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.27] gives [Dominus Dominorum](193) and cites [Deuteronomy 10:17](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/10-17.htm): *"For the Lord your God is God of Gods and Lord of Lords, the great, the mighty, the terrible God, Who is not partial and takes no bribe."*

---

### English Gematria:

- [Impossibilities](/english?word=Impossibilities) *([Fama Intro p.14](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n14/mode/2up))*. This reference to the "Predicament of Impossibilities" refers to Adam's banishment from the Garden of Eden.

---

### See Also:

- [15](15)
- [6](6)