## 178 - One Hundred Seventy-Eight
> (2x89)

### [qubboah](/keys/QBVO) - קבוע
> receptacular, cohesive, measuring. The Intelligence of the 4th path of Chesed. Also fixed, constant, permanent, regular.

> *"The letters of this word form part of the doctrines of the grade of Exempt Adept. They are:*

> - *"Qoph, The self never changes, personality undergoes continual transformation. The changeless perfection of the I Am is manifested as organic perfection in the body of an exempt adept. One is a new creature, offering the Life-power an adequate vehicle for its beneficence.*
> - *"Beth: these organic changes are the result of conscious intention and long practice. they do not come about as the outcome of general averages of evolution. They are acquired characteristics, not transmitted by heredity. 'Flesh and blood cannot inherent the Kingdom of God.'*
> - *"Vav: the personal effort involved in the intention and practice which bering about these changes requires the supervision of the superconscious self. "no man comes to the father save through the son" means just this. Unless we hear the word, and obey it, we cannot live the life which will transform us by the renewing of our minds.*
> - *"Ayin: the Exempt Adept fear no appearance of evil. He has reached the point when it is safe for him to look evil in the face. No appearances of evil arouses in him, the least trace of antagonism. He regards every semblance of evil as an opportunity for the demonstration of good. He by no means passively accepts evil conditions, nor does he deny the relative reality of any evil appearance. He knows all appearances of evil as unfinished expression of good, and thus he transforms evil by discovering in it the good toward which it is moving."*

> [True and Invisible 419-420]. see [72](72).

### [ben-almahnah](/keys/BN.ALMNH) - בן אלמנה
> The widow's son. [1 Kings 7:14](http://biblehub.com//.htm). Hiram Abiff. *"He was a widow's son of the Tribe of Naphthali [Virgo = distillation], and his father was a man of Tyre, a worker in Brass: and he was filled with wisdom, and understanding, and cunning to work all works in brass. And he came to King Solomon, and wrought all his work."* see [254](254), [273](273).

### [khalatzim](/keys/ChLTzIM) - חלצים
> Loins, lower part, strength, vigor. see [738](738).

### [khahphatz](/keys/ChPTz) - חפץ
> desire, love; longing, good pleasure. Also: to delight, take pleasure, to be pleased, being willing, desirous, purpose, choice, decision, will, wish.

### [Kehseph chai](/keys/KSP.ChI) - כסף חי
> Living silver; quick sliver. The Aesch Mezareph [7, p.38] says: *"And as the name of AL El, doth insinuate the nature of silver, because both belong to the class of Chesed, (But here to that Chesed, which is inferior viz. Yesod). So the name of ALChI Elchai, is the same as it were, cheseph chai KSPChI, i.e. quicksilver."* see [570](570), [949](949).

## Latin

### [centrum in circulo](/latin?word=centrum+in+circulo) (Lt)
> center in the circle. The symbol of the point within the circle.

### [tria sunt mirabilia](/latin?word=tria+sunt+mirabilia) (Lt)
> three are the marvels. Part of a Latin motto inscribed in a circle and symbol heading of "The Golden Age Restored," an alchemical treatise included in Secret Symbols (Page 20) and in The Hermetic Museum (Vol 1, page 51).