## 182 - One Hundred Eighty-Two
> 2x91

### [Jacob](/keys/IOQB) - יעקב
> Old Testement name. Mathers in Sepher Sephiroth (p.181) gives: layer of snares, supplanter; Jacob.

> According to the Book of Concealed Mystery [I:39, p.59]:

> > *"Because it is written [Isaiah 44:5](http://biblehub.com//.htm): 'That man shall say, I am of the Tetragrammaton.' (the word אני, [ani](/keys/ANI), I, when the discourse is concerning judgements, pertains to the queen. But whenever mercy is introduced it refers to the understanding, as in this place, in order that the sense may be: the supernal path, which is called I, or the understanding in act of conjunction with the father, is for the purpose of the formation of the Tetragrammaton, and this is one conjunction between the father and the mother for the constitution of the six members).*

> > *"And that shall be called by the name יעקב [Jacob](/keys/IOQB). (to call by name is to preserve; and another conjunction of father and mother is introduced for the purpose of preserving the Microprosopus, which is called Jacob). And that man shall write with his hand, 'I am the Lord's'. (to write belongs to the written law, or the beautiful path, and the same also signifies to flow in.)*

> > *"'With his hand' בידו [beyedo](/keys/BIDV), #[22](22), is by metathesis ביוד [be-Yod](/keys/BIVD), that is, through the foundation, in order that the sense may be, it may be formed from his influx, so that the Tetragrammaton may be written with Yod, as we have above said. And by the name of Israel shall he call himself. He shall call himself thus in truth. For the conception of the Microprosopus is more properly under the name of Jacob, whose wife is Rachel; and his cognomen, as it were, is Israel, whose wife is Leah."* see [172](172)

### [Melakh ha-Elohim](/keys/MLAK.HALHIM) - מלאך האלהים
> Messenger of God.

### [Haqaldema](/keys/HAQALDMA) - האקאלדמא
> Aceldamach, "field of blood", field purchased by Judas, who perished therein [Acts 1:19](http://biblehub.com/acts/1-19.htm): *"And it was known to all those dwelling at Jerusalem, so that the field is called in their own language Aceldamach"* (Ἁκελδαμάχ), which is, a field of blood. [Acts 2:19](http://biblehub.com/acts/2-19.htm): *"And I will give prodigies in the heavens above and signs on the earth below; blood and fire, and a cloud of smoke."* see [102](102) (Greek).

### [zeyawqawh](/keys/ZOQH) - זעקה
> outcry, clamor, From זעק [za'aq](/keys/ZOQ) "to cry, cry out", the old blood cells holding negative patterns are disturbed in the microcosmic "field" (Cheth). see [177](177)

### [mene, mene](/keys/MNA.MNA) - מנא מנא
> numbered, numbered. [Daniel 5:25](http://biblehub.com/daniel/5-25.htm): *"And this is the writing that was written (on the wall), mene, mene, tekel, upharsin"* [5:26](http://biblehub.com/daniel/5-26.htm): *"this is the interpretation of the thing: mene; God hath numbered thy kingdom, and finished it."*

### [mahqebil](/keys/MQBIL) - מקביל
> passive (as opposed to מחקבל [maheqebil](/keys/MChQBL)  = active); opposite, parallel. It is reversal of mind (Mem) working in sleep (Qoph) and in waking attention (Beth) to be receptive to assimilation of the divine will (Yod) and guidance (Lamed) of all acts.

## Greek/Latin

### [Datum in Monte Abiegno](/latin?word=Datum+in+Monte+Abiegno) (Lt)
> Found of Mt. Abiegno (RC symbol).