## 183 - One Hundred Eighty-Three
> (3x61)

### [ha-khahphatz](/keys/HChPTz) - החפץ 
> to bend or curve. The English "bent" has the same connotation. Relates to the [21st path](21) of [Kaph](/keys/K), the "Inclination to Seek." see [636](636), [892](892).

The implication is that, by undertaking a journey or quest, you will eventually end up where you started, but with the wisdom that what you seek is, has always been, and will always be in your possession. The identification of החפץ with λόγοι or "words" indicates that it is through telling your own story that you are able to "grasp" the power of your own identity.

## Greek/Latin:

### [Logoi](/greek?word=logoi) (Gr) - λόγοι
> Words. A technical mystery term identical with the Sanskrit Mantra, the "Word of Power." see [214](214).

### [Lex Orandi, Lex Credendi](/latin?word=lex+orandi+lex+credendi)
The Law of Prayer, the Law of Belief

> ***Lex orandi, lex credendi** (Latin loosely translated as "the law of praying [is] the law of believing") is a motto in Christian tradition, which means that it is prayer which leads to belief, or that it is liturgy which leads to theology. It refers to the relationship between worship and belief, and is an ancient Christian principle which provided a measure for developing the ancient Christian creeds, the canon of scripture and other doctrinal matters based on the prayer texts of the Church, that is, the Church's liturgy. In the Early Church, there was liturgical tradition before there was a common creed and before there was an officially sanctioned biblical canon. These liturgical traditions provided the theological framework for establishing the creeds and canon.* [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lex_orandi,_lex_credendi)


### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)