## 191 (prime)

---

### [Pakatz](/keys/PAKTz) - פאכץ
> Night demon of 1st decanate of Aries. This decanate is ruled by Mars and suggest lack of this energy, leaving individual timid, lackadaisical and lethargic.

---

## Latin/Greek:

---

### [Sanctum Sanctorum](latin?word=sanctum+sanctorum) (Lt)
> Holy of Holies. A cubical room in the Bible, containing the ark of the covenant, *"upon which rested the Shekhinah, or divine presence. In the tabernacle, the Holy of Holies measured ten cubits in length, breath, and height. In Solomon's temple it measured twenty cubits in each dimension. within the Sanctum Sanctorum, in Solomon's Temple, was deposited the ark of the covenant, and between the Cherubim of the ark, was the resting-place of the Shekhinah. In the second temple, according to Josephus and the traditions of the Hebrew Rabbis, the Holy of Holies was empty, or contained only the stone of foundation in the place which the ark should have occupied."* [[True and Invisible (WeiserBooks) p.133](https://archive.org/details/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985/page/n139)].

> In esoteric Freemasonry it is the unfinished structure inside the human brain, the organ of spiritual sight, also called the adytum (see [81](81), [74](74) Latin).

> *"This point is at once a center within the brain of man having the experience, and at the same time a point in space, from which lines may be conceived as radiating in every direction."* [[Op. cit. p.134](https://archive.org/details/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985/page/n140)]

> *"When we find the place of repose at the center we have entered the Sanctum Sanctorum. There the son, man, is one with the Father, God. The central point, then, is the point of identification with the originating spirit. That point is a definite location in the brain, the Zion mentioned by the prophet.'"* [[Op. cit. p.137](https://archive.org/details/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985/page/n143)]. see [156](156).

---

### [ad gloriam rosae crucis](/latin?word=ad+gloriam+rosae+crucis) (Lt)
> to the glory of the rosy cross. Full inscription from initials A.G.R.C., written in circles of the altar table of Brother C.R. in the Rosicrucian Fama. see [808](808) (Latin).

---

### [regnum Dei et christi](/latin?word=regnum+dei+et+christi) (Lt)
> The kingdom of God and Christ. Referred to in the Confessio Fraternitatis: *"The renovation to come is a renovation of kingdoms and churches... it connotes the new Jerusalem, the renewal of the whole world, the regnum Dei et Christi."* [A.E. Waite: Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross, p.642](https://archive.org/details/A.EWaiteTheBrotherhoodOfTheRosyCross/page/n1)

---

### See Also:

- [11](11)
- [2](2)
