## 194 - One Hundred Ninety-Four
> (2x97) [5x5 + 13x13]

---

### [Tzedek](/keys/TzDQ) - צדק
> Jupiter, The sky father. As a verb Tzedek means: to be just, be righteous, to be in the right; be justified, be just, prosperity. The [21st Path](21) of Kaph. see [986](986).

> Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p. 656] Gives: Justita and cites [Isaiah 1:21](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/1-21.htm): *"See how the faithful city [i.e. Jerusalem] has become a harlot! She once was full of **justice**; righteousness used to dwell in her-but now murderers!"*

---

### [Hu El qana](/keys/HVA.AL.QNA) - הוא אל קנא
> He (is) a jealous God. [Deuteronomy 4:24](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/4-24.htm). The esoteric meaning rests on whats amounts to a pun. In Hebrew קנא [jealous](/keys/QNA) and with different vowel points it means: to own, to possess, to set a measure to are almost identical in sound, and are also related in derivation. The Divine jealousy is like that of all strong powers in the universe. The more truly we measure the forces with which we are working and the more completely we comply with the principles and laws revealed by such measurement, the more perfect is our application. The powers of God and the powers of nature are the same powers. Perfect obedience to the way things really are is the price we must pay; and when we do pay it we get full measure in return-- pressed down and running over. see [72](72), [48](48).

---

## Greek/Latin

---

### [ha ennoia](/greek?word=h+ennoia) (Gr) - η εννοια
> a thought, intent, design. The faculty of thinking. see [259](259) Greek.

---

### [oculus universale](/latin?word=oculus+universale) (Lt)
> the Universal Eye [Secret Symbols page 9]. This is the eye of providence, which is part of the symbolism of Freemasonry and is included in the symbolism of the Great Seal of the U.S. The notion of providence is directly connected with the fourth path and with the sphere of Jupiter.

---

### [Rosa Christus Est](/latin?word=Rosa+Christus+Est) (Lt)
> The Rose is Christ. A Rosicrucian motto, found in various unpublished manuscripts, and in one or two printed books. [beginning of text missing] *"...of human nature in the manifested state, and in that which is called attainment humanity becomes the rose, that is to say, the Christhood. Rosa christus est Herein also is the incarnation understood mystically."* [Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross, p.634] see [47](47), [107](107) (Latin), [154](154).

---

### [Ruoto Della Fortuna](/latin?word=Ruoto+Della+Fortuna) (Lt)
> Wheel of Good Fortune.

---

### See Also:

- [14](14)
- [5](5)
