## 196 - One Hundred Ninety-Six
> (4x7x7) [14x14]

---

### [olamim](/keys/OVLMIM) - עולמים
> ages; worlds.

---

### [qootz](/keys/QVTz) - קוץ
> thorn. crown, summit, point. Metathesis of צוק [tzoq](/keys/TzVQ). It is organization ([Qoph](/keys/)) by listening to the inner voice ([Vav](/keys/V)) through meditation ([Tzaddi](/keys/Tz)). Also קוץ ([qotz](/keys/QVTz)) thorn, thornbush; title, jot, apex, piece; קוץ to loathe, abhor; to feel a sickening dread, shrink with fear; קוץ (qawahtz) to shrink, be dried up; to curl; קוץ (yiyatz) to clear of thorns, to weed out;

---

### [qahawtz](/keys/QVTz) - קוץ
> curly head, fruit drier.

---

### [tzoq](/keys/TzVQ) - צוק
> constraint, distress; peak, precipice; "troublous" [Daniel 9:25](http://biblehub.com//.htm): "Know therefore and understand, that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem unto the Messiah the prince shall be seven weeks, and three-score and two weeks (62): the street shall be built again, and the wall, even in troublous times." Jerusalem is the "abode of Peace"; Messiah is the Christos in the heart center; 7 weeks refers to the cycle related to the 7 interior stars or alchemical "metals"; 62 = "the tabernacle of IHVH". see 586, 358.

---

### [yawm soph](/keys/IMSVP) - 
> the boundless sea. [K.D.L.C.K. p.435] Malkuth is called the "sea" here, which the paternal light of Chokmah illuminates it; it is limitless on every level and denotes what is "below", rather than simply being the sea.

---

### [lipaynie IHVH](/keys/LPNI.IHVH) - 
> "in the presence of Jehovah"; "before the Lord". [Genesis 18:22](http://biblehub.com//.htm): "And the men turned their faces from thence, and went toward Sodom: but Abraham stood yet before the Lord." Note that Sodom means "burning or conflagration", and Abraham means "Father of Many nations". see 104, 248, 59.

---

### [Satan-az](/keys/SThN.OZ) - 
> Satan; the adversary, "father of lies", variant spelling. see ShThN (#359); ?Σα α α ? (#753, Greek). Satan is the illusion of appearances. The origin of "troublous" times.

---

### [qamon](/keys/QMVN) - 
> Camon, the city where Jair was buried. Linked with Mars and Sun. see 221.

---

### [aanan IHVH](/keys/ONN.IHVH) - ענן יהוה
"cloud of the LORD". [Exodus 40:38](http://biblehub.com/exodus/40-38.htm): *"For the cloud of the LORD was upon the tabernacle by day, and fire was on it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel, throughout all their journeys."*

---

### See Also:

- [16](16)
- [7](7)
