## 203 - Two Hundred Three
> (7x29)

---

### [ayber](/keys/ABR) - אבר
> limb, organ, wing; strong.

---

### [baraw](/keys/BRA) - ברא
> to cut out, to separate, to select, to create. [Isaiah 45:7](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/45-7.htm), [Genesis 1:1](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-1.htm). Hides all mysteries of darkness and evil. The presence of seeming evil in the universe is a necessity, because manifestation itself must come through limitation, and limitation is the root of pain. All misery is rooted in ignorance; but ignorance can be cured, and when it is cured, there is an end to misery. We may use the mind we now have to such advantage that we may correct our errors and bring ourselves into a living experience of truth. see [15](15), and [Dictionary of All scriptures and Myths, p.182].

> The Zohar [I:1,2] Comments: *"The deity began (the creation) by forming an imperceptible point; this was its own thought; then it turned itself to construct with its own thought a mysterious and holy form; finally, it covered this (ideal) form with a rich and shining (visible) garment; that it, the entire universe, of which the name necessarily enters into the name of Elohim."*

> Cario Suares points out: *"Barah: creation. Creation, violent triumphant affirmation of the creative immanence. The surging -- or revolving -- action of perpetual creation gives birth to its own containers: bara, bar -- Aleph means: Son of Aleph... Creation! Vertiginous movement, immeasurable movement, movement that transcends all conception. In the hidden depths of movement is the secret of existence. And this movement is he custodian of all possible possibilities. Existing, projection of life, negation of existence (everything that exists must cease to exist). Apparent betrayal of life. Revelation! Life-death is one. And the collision, the shock of passive resistance of the mass, the hard, the dry, the stones: blessed resistance! Without resistance there could be no birth, this is the becoming."* [The Cipher of Genesis, p.78]

---

### [beer, bayar](/keys/BAR) - באר
> well, spring; pit. A title of Malkuth. Also: BAR to make plain, distinct, to explain, elucidate. Aleph is now placed in the middle-it is the eternal mediator who explains the true meaning of creation in darkness. see [575](575).

---

### [ahbhar, ehbar](/keys/ABR) - אבר
> Lead. The metal attributed to Saturn, the 32nd path, to dominion and slavery. The alchemist had much to say about transmuting this "base metal" into gold. Relates to the physical plane of manifestation. In Rabbinical Hebrew ABR is a limb, part, organ; and ABR is "to be strong, hard". Hence "Pillar of fruitfulness" [is] related to ISVD, the sacred foundation. See [K.D.L.C.K. p.22]: ABR, penna, ala: it membrum, et quidem genitale. *"limb, wing: that is, a member, indeed the genital [or reproductive organ]".*

> Referring to the Zohar, prologue [3B, p.14] *"What was hitherto sealed up and unproductive in the word bara has by a transposition of letters become serviceable, there has emerged a pillar of fruitfulness: for BRA has been transformed into ABR (organ), which is the sacred foundation on which the world rests."*

---

### [A-B-R](/keys/A-B-R) - א ב ר
> initials of the trinity: אב ([Ab](/keys/AB)), the father, בן ([Ben](/keys/BN)), the son, and רוח ([Ruach](/keys/RVCh)), the life-breath or spirit.

---

### [arob](/keys/ARB) - ארב
> to lie in wait, to lie in ambush, to lurk. Also ARB, ambuscade, ambush; groin. Note that Resh is placed between Aleph and Beth instead of following them, as above. The spirit lies in wait, ready to bring its transmuting power from groin to heart.

---

### [beawmetzao](/keys/BAMTzO) - באמצע
> in the midst; in the center. see Sepher Yetzirah IV.4 Kachoch.

---

### [Eloah mozaim](/keys/ALH.MOZIM) - אלה מעזים
> The God of forces (a fortress), i.e. Mars.

---

### [geger](/keys/GR) - גר
> stranger, foreigner; proselyte. Case: exotic, foreign. Also: גר (gar) dwelling; to abide, dwell, sojourn, remain. In [Isaiah 11:6](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/11-6.htm) *"The world will dwell with the lamb, the leopard will lie down with the goat, the calf and the lion and the yearling together; and a little child will lead them."*

---

### See Also:

- [5](5)
