## 208 - Two Hundred Eight
> (13x16)

---

### [arbeh](/keys/ARBH) - ארבה
> locusts. A pest in years of famine and drought. Godwin gives: The 8th of the ten plagues of Egypt. In [Exodus 10:12](http://biblehub.com/exodus/10-12.htm): *"And the Lord said to Moses, 'stretch out your hand over Egypt so that locusts will swarm over the land and devour everything growing in the fields, everything left by the hail."*

---

### [aerubawh](/keys/ARBH) - ארבה
> lattice, latticed windowed; chimney; orbit of the eye; opening panel in wall or door.

---

### [awrebawh](/keys/ARBH) - ארבה
> artifice, tricky movement; ארבה boat.

---

### [chor](/keys/ChR) - חר
> to be white, hence, to be shining, noble. The father of Uri ([217](217)). Refers to Tiphareth and the Ego. In alchemy, its connection with the sun associates it with the metal gold, which is exceptionally lustrous, and is called the most noble mental. Variant in spelling. see [210](210), [153](153), [314](314). With different vowel points: hole.

---

### [Isaac](/keys/ITzChQ) - יצחק
> He laughs, one that mocks. The proper name Isaac, son of Abraham. see [418](418). [K.D.L.C.K. page 266]

---

### [Hagar](/keys/HGR) - הגר
> flight, fugitive. The Egyptian wife of Abraham. She was given a promise by the angel, and her son, Ishmael was the fulfillment of the promise.

> *"Hagar and her progeny, through Ishmael, represent the destructive action of the [alchemical] first matter, arising from the false ascription to it of multiplicity. This is the substitution of the notion of duality for unity in the conception of the originating principle, the same thing that results from eating the forbidden fruit of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil. It is to be observed that "flight", the meaning of Hagar-is also the meaning of Nod, the Land to which Cain escaped after slaying Abel. It is the antagonism which appears to exist between matter and spirit that gives rise to the conception of duality, and Hagar is a type of the first matter when so regarded. Thus her name and History are in correspondence to the root idea of "bitterness," concerning which the names, Mary, Hiram, Marah, etc. contain such plain indications. see [250](250), [245](245), [290](290).*

> *"She is the feminine principle which Boehme describes thus: 'the more the reconceived will desires manifestation, the more strongly and eagerly the desire draws, into itself, and makes in itself three forms, viz., the desire, which is astringent.' The harshness or astringency is associated by Boehme with salt, and the saltiness or bitterness of the sea is that which is suggested by the name Mary. The Tree which Moses cast into the bitter waters is the Tree of Life, that is, the Knowledge of the true creative order as expressed in the scheme of Sephiroth and paths from Kether to Malkuth. This tree demonstrates the unity of the originating principle, an of the order of its self-manifestation, which order, being understood and imitated enables us to perform the Great Work"* [PFC on DD Bryant's The Philosopher's Stone].

---

### [bur](/keys/BVR) - בור
> a cistern.

---

### [gahar](/keys/GHR) - גהר
> bowed.

---

### [gawhar](/keys/GHR) - גהר
> to bend, crouch; bowed. also: גהר (gahar) bending, prostration; exhaled warm breath.

---

### [garah](/keys/GRH) - גרה
> to excite, provoke, stir up; to make strife, contend. Also: Part of the body from the neck to chest; a female proselyte; the pit or seeds in St. John's bread; cud, spittle; gerah, small coin, the twentieth part of a shekel. Metathesis of גהר.

---

### [harag, hawrahg](/keys/HRG) - הרג
> to kill, slay. Also: הרג (horahg) to be killed; הרג (hereg) killing, slaughter, massacre; execution by decapitation with a sword; הרג (hawrawg) murder, highwayman. Metathesis of גרה.

---

### [rub, roob](/keys/RVB) - רוב
> Multitude. All these ideas are implicit in the promise of the angel to Hagar, through her son, Ishmael. (Coptic see [828](828))

---

### [ebayrawh](/keys/ABRH) - אברה
> wing-feather, pinion.

---

### [zawrawa](/keys/ZRA) - זרא
> loathing, abominable.

---

### [piaynech](/keys/PONCh) - פענח
> to reveal, discover; to discover.

---

### [rawzawa](/keys/RZA) - רזא
> "this mystery" [Daniel 2:30](http://biblehub.com/daniel/2-30.htm): *"this mystery has been revealed to me, not because of any wisdom that I have more than all the living, but in order that the interpretation may be made known to the king,"* see [301](301), [694](694) [In the Aramaic Aleph affixed to a word is the definite article "the", רז is the Hebrew]

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Inhabitans aeternitatem](/latin?word=Inhabitans+aeternitatem) (Lt)
> Abiding eternally, or dwelling in eternity. see [450](450).

---

### [Amphitheatrum Chemicum](/latin?word=Amphitheatrum+Chemicum) (Lt)
Underground Chemistry.

> *We have already said that Henry Khunrath published in 1609 a book called Amphitheatrum Chemicum, in which appears an [illustration](https://i.pinimg.com/originals/8d/51/a9/8d51a9616fa3fb820ff8f42f1f78e33e.jpg) showing the word אבן, [Ehben](/keys/ABN). enclosed in a triangle.* [True and Invisible (WeiserBooks), p. 108]

---

### See Also:

- [10](10)
- [1](1)

