## 210 - Two Hundred Ten
> (2x3x5x7) 20 = 210. 210 is the difference in numeration between the Greek of Παῦλος (Paulos = Paul) = [781](781) and Σαῦλος (Saulos = Saul) = [901](901). Here Π (80) was subtracted from Σ and he became the apostle Paul. Study the gematria carefully.

> [Acts 13:9](http://biblehub.com/acts/13-9.htm): *"Then Saul, who also is called Paul, filled with the Holy Ghost, set his eyes on him"*

---

### [nephilim](/keys/NPLIM) - נפלים
> the giants. [Genesis 6:4](http://biblehub.com/genesis/6-4.htm): *"There were [the] giants in the earth in those days; and also after that, when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare children unto them, the me became mighty men which were of old, men of renown."*

> [Numbers 13:33](http://biblehub.com/numbers/13-33.htm): *"And there we saw the giants, the sons of Anak, which come of the giants: and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight."*

> The Book of Concealed Mystery [IV:18, p.100] says: *"They [i.e. the giants] were in the earth in those days, but no in the following time, until Joshua came. That is, they are applicable to the path of the bride [Malkuth, #[496](496)], which is also called the land of Canaan, were Joshua found the giants. For the word [nephilim](/keys/NPILIM), נפילים, occurs not fully: except when it is used in the incident of the spies."* see [220](220).

---

### [amoq](/keys/OMQ) - עמק
> deep, profound (see [1024](1024)).

---

### [l'ayinim](/keys/LOINIM) - לעינים
> thine eyes.

---

### [melapheni](/keys/MLPNI) - מלפני
> From thy presence.

---

### [tzawdiq](/keys/TzVDIQ) - צודיק 
> Righteous.

---

### [vered](/keys/VRD) - ורד
> rose, rose-tree. A symbol of the human soul, of desire and spiritual aspiration.

> Also: *"ורד (vawrod). rose-colored. A proper name used in a literal and figurative sense. In the literal sense, it denotes a mythological sea-monster of the same class as the dragon, and is probably connected with the Semitic myth of Tiamat, the destroyer of God's order in the universe. [Isaiah 51:9](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/51-9.htm) *'Awake, Awake, put on strength, O arm of the Lord; awake, as in the ancient days, in the generation of old. Art thou not it that hath cut Rahab, and wounded the dragon?'*

> *"In the figurative sense, it is a name given to Egypt [Psalm 89:10](http://biblehub.com/psalms/89-10.htm): 'Thou hast broken Rehab in pieces, as one that is slain; thou hast scattered thine enemies with thy strong arm.' Possibly with some reference to... some relation between Egypt and the sea-monster, Rehab"* [Standard Bible Dictionary, p.760] see [368](368), [380](380), [220](220).

---

### [rachab](/keys/RChB) - רחב
> proud. [Job 9:13](http://biblehub.com/job/9-13.htm): *"If God will not withdraw his anger, the proud helpers do stoop under him."*


---

### [rohab](/keys/RChB) - רחב
> breath, width, extent. RChB rahab. breadth, broad expanse. also: RChB wide, broad, spacious, roomy.

---

### [horeb](/keys/ChRB) - חרב
> Horeb, the mountain on which the law was given to Moses, also called Sinai. Means: "He is high, or firm"; also: "dry and burnt up" [Inman]

> [Exodus 17:6](http://biblehub.com/exodus/17-6.htm): *"Behold, I will stand before thee there upon the rock in Horeb; and you shalt smite the rock, and there shall come water, out of it; that the people may drink. And Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel."* Metathesis of רחב. Note that ח (receptivity, will) is placed before Resh (face, head).

---

### [Karab](/keys/ChRB) - חרב
> to be dry, be dried up; to be waste, be desolate;

---

### [Korab](/keys/ChRB) - חרב
> to be dried. חרב karehb. dry; waste, desolate, ruined. חרב korehb. dryness, drought; heat, desolation, waste.

---

### [kehrehb](/keys/ChRB) - חרב
> swords; knife, sharp tool blade of plough. Has to do with the continence of the Mars forces. see 215.

---

### [rabach](/keys/RBCh) - רבח
The Sun (R) in (B) Cancer (Ch).

---

### [dor](/keys/DVR) - דור
> generation; period, age. Also: דור to dwell, lodge; to pile up, heap up; circle, rim. Suggest the movement around a center, as pictured in [Key 10](10). דור post-man, letter carrier.

---

### [rogaz](/keys/RGZ) - רגז
> raging, rage, commotion, wrath; noise, turmoil; trouble, disquiet; excitement; zeal [Variant spelling, see [216](216)] Effect of the Mars force when unbalances. also: רגז to quake, to be excited, to perturbed; to be disquieted; to rage, be wrath; to be agitated. see [216](216).

---

### [gawzahr](/keys/GZR) - גזר
> to cut, divide in two; to cut down, cut off, destroy; to decide, decree; (with על) to prohibit; to circumsice; to derive (etymologically). Metathesis of רגז. Here the power of memory (Gimel) cuts apart what is valid form what is not (discrimination = Zain) and leads to the birth of the new creature (Resh).

---

### [gehzehr](/keys/GZR) - גזר
> piece, part, cut; log of wood; carrot.

---

### [gozehr](/keys/GZR) - גזר
> decision, verdict, judgment; גזר gzahr. decision, decree, sentence.

---

### [harah](/keys/HRH) - הרה
> to conceive, to join together, to be coupled; הרה to be conceived; הרה a pregnant woman.

---

### [adhar](/keys/ADHR) - אדהר
> Adam Primus; the first Adam, or archtypal humanity Notariqon for אדם הראשון [Adam ha-rawshon](/keys/ADM.HRAShVN). see [607](607), [45](45).

---

### [masenin](/keys/MSNIN) - מסנין
> Angel of 1st decanate of Capricorn. This decanate is ruled by Saturn, and indicates qualities of: cautious, judicial, executive. (Mars is exalted in Capricorn).

---

### [Bazar](/keys/BZAR) - בזאר
> Day demon of 1st decanate of Cancer. This decanate is ruled by the Moon and indicates lack of receptivity to subconscious memory.

---

### [Cainan](/keys/QINN) - קינן
> Son of Enos and father of Mahalaleel; great-grandson of Adam, lived [910](910) years (325-1235 after creation); spelled Kenan in R.S.V. [Genesis 5:9](http://biblehub.com/genesis/5-9.htm): *"And Enos lived ninety years, and begat Cainan."* Cainan = QIN Cain ([160](160)) + Nun. see [860](860), [910](910).

> Inman writes: *"This word is probably a variant of כנן [Chanan](/keys/KNN), or Kanan, 'he stands upright,' 'he is set up', equivalent to a Hermes."* (i.e. bust of Mercury set up at a crossroads) [Ancient Faiths, p.382]

---

### [Baal-chanan](/keys/BOL-ChNN) - בעל־חנן
> "Baal was gracious." The seventh king of Edom (#[45](45)), associated with Yesod; according to A. E. Waite, an arch-demon, corresponding to Netzach, sphere of Venus and desire. Mentioned in [Genesis 36:38](http://biblehub.com/genesis/36-38.htm): *"And Saul died, and Baal-hanah, the son of Achbor, reigned in his stead."* see [860](860), [166](166).

---

### [Misin](/keys/MSNIN) - מסנין
> Angel of the first decanate of Capricorn. This decanate is characterized by the qualities: cautions, judicious and executive. In the minor tarot arcana it corresponds to the powers of Chokmah, wisdom functioning in Assiah, the material world. These powers are those of conscious life, which begin all cycles of creation, great and small. The fist decanate of Capricorn is ruled by Saturn, Showing a connection between the false appearances of things (Ayin, attributed to Capricorn) and the consciousness which makes all things new (Saturn). It is associated with the stage of the alchemical great work called fermentation (#[830](830), #[1112](1112)). The angel her corresponds to the black work of alchemy wherein the physical body is made fitting channel for the wisdom of Chokmah, and recognizing every activity of personal existence as part of the motion of the universe. When well-developed, this can bring harmony in the midst of change; alternation of gain and loss; change of occupation, and ups and downs of fortune. Negative alignment intimates discontent; foolishness in the management of resources and restricted condition of material affairs. The angel's name suggest the power of mental substance (Mem) strengthened by experience (Samekh) of reproductive energy (Nun), alignment with the divine will (Yod) to transmute this energy into its highest use on the physical plane (Nun). see [860](860).

---

### [na'ahtz](/keys/NOTz) - נעץ
> clasp, tack.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [in noblis regnat Iesus](/latin?word=in+noblis+regnat+Iesus) (Lt)
> Jesus rules in us; variant reading of the Rosicrucian password. I:N:R:I, suggested by Franz Hartmann. see [299](299), [287](287), [46](46) (Latin). note: Jesus = [67](67) = natura.

---

### See Also:

- [21](21)
- [3](3)

