## 212 - Two Hundred Twelve
> (4x53)

---

### [Zohar](/keys/ZHR) - זהר
> splendor; title of Qabalah text.

---

### [zahrah](/keys/ZRH) - זרה
> Paul Case gives: stranger, alien (feminine), harlot, and quotes [Proverbs 5:3](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/5-3.htm): *"For the lips of a strange woman drop honey (as an honeycomb, and her mouth is smoother than oil".*

> Remember the connection between Gimel, depicted as a woman in [Key 2](2) and חכמה [Chokmah](/keys/ChKMH), wisdom. see [73](73).

---

### [mayuqawb](/keys/MOQB) - מעקב
> cubic. The secret knowledge concerning which the hierophant discourses may truly be called "cubical", for the symbolism of the stone pertains to universal truth, and to the union of "father" (Chokmah) and "son" (Tiphareth).

---

### [ain miqayveh](/keys/AIN.MQVH) - אין מקוה
> "none abiding." [1 Chronicles 29:15](http://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/29-15.htm): *"For we are strangers before thee, and sojourners, as were all our fathers: our days on the earth are as a shadow, and there in none abiding."*

> Paul Case Gives "no expectation; also "a spring of gathering." In the Hebrew Lexicon מקוה is translated collection, gathering together (of water), reservoir, pool, hope; ritual bath of purification. Purity leads to the pool of wisdom.

---

### [khawred](/keys/ChRD) - חרד
> fearful, trembling; god-fearing, reverent; orthodox. To "fear" (revere) the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.

> Also: חדר (chawdar) to tremble, quake; to be anxious, be uneasy, to come or go trembling, hurry.

---

### [rabbi](/keys/RBI) - רבי
> my master, rabbi, teacher. The inner teacher is the "rabbi". See [115](115), [185](185) (Greek), [613](613).

---

### [Haoor](/keys/HAVR) - האור
> Night demon of 1st decanate of Capricorn. This decanate has rulership of Saturn, and suggest sub-conscious imbalance, resulting in negative qualities, expressing as fearfulness and lack of confidence, over-focus on materiality.

---

### [Dibbur](/keys/DBVR) - דבור
> cont. Note that the great voice, דבור, is related to שמעון [Simeon](/keys/ShMOVN) (II, #[466](466)), whose name signifies "the one that is heard". Traditionally Simeon was the name of the first pope, and 'the pope' is another name for [Key 5](5). דבור as distinguished from אמירה [Amirah](/keys/AMIRH)... simple speech, wherein is required no especial lifting up the voice; 'Debur" is public speaking, wherein is indeed necessary (considerable) elevation of voice and (loud) proclamation of words." [IRQ:352] see [256](256).

---

### [rawzawa](/keys/RZH) - רזא
> "the secret" [Daniel 2:27](http://biblehub.com/daniel/2-27.htm): *"The secret which the king hath asked can neither wise men, enchanters, magicians, nor astrologers declare unto the king"*  [28](http://biblehub.com/daniel/2-28.htm): *"but there is a God in heaven, אלה בשמיא [elah beshmia](/keys/ALH.BShMIA) (#[389](389)) that revealeth secrets גלא רזין [galeh razin](/keys/GLA.RZIN) (#[301](301))."* see [301](301)

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Christus, Deus et Home](/latin?word=Christus+Deus+et+Home) (Lt)
> Christ, God and Man [Secret Symbols, p36]. A clear indication as to what the Fama means when it speaks of C.R. as the foundation of the order.

---

### See Also:

- [5](5)
