## 213 - Two Hundred Thirteen
> (3x71)

---

### [hadar](/keys/HDDR) - הדדר
> Magnificence; supreme benignity.

---

### [Chesed Auleah Da-El](/keys/ChSD.OLAH.DAL) - חסד עלאה דאל
> Supernal Mercy of God.

---

### [ahbeer](/keys/ABIR) - אביר
> strong, mighty; violent, steed, strong bull, gallant knight, heard. This word is applied to God, the "Mighty One".

---

### [etzaytagaynin](/keys/ATzTGNIN) - אצטגנין
> astrologer. One who interprets the cycles of universal manifestation, relating it to the microcosm. see Key [10](10), [619](619).

---

### [haeregaw](/keys/HRGH) - הרגה
> slaughter. [Jeremiah 12:3](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"But thou, O Lord, knowest me: thou has seen me, and tried mine heart toward me: pull them out like sheep from the slaughter, and prepare them for the day of slaughter." What must be killed out is the sense of separation, and this is done with the aid of memory, or Chesed, the "Mighty and Magnificent"*.

---

### [giyer](/keys/GIR) - גיר
> to make a proselyte. also: Gir (giyr) lime, chalk, plaster. [2 Chronicles 2:17](http://biblehub.com/2_chronicles/2-17.htm) *"And Solomon numbered all the strangers [proselytes] that were in the land of Israel, after the numbering where with David his father had numbered them; and they were found an hundred and fifty thousand and three hundred thousand and six hundred."* The "strangers" are raw material, or lime and plaster for the great work.

> [150](150) = the heavenly man = "thine eyes" (the divine beneficence) = "They that are taught"; [306](306) = "Father of Mercies", "And the spirit of God"; "the Lord is my shepherd". Solomon is connected with the Sun, David means "beloved"; Israel means "he shall rule as God". see [128](128), [28](28), [935](935).

---

### [Harach](/keys/HRCh) - הרח
> 59th name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 5th quinance (21°-25°) of Taurus. see [244](244), [1525](1525).

---

### [Awnan Gadol](/keys/ONN.GDVL) - ענן גדול
> "immense cloud". Mathers, in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.26] gives: Nubes [a cloud] Magna [great]. In [Ezekial 1:4](http://biblehub.com//.htm) "I looked, and I saw a windstorm coming out of the north-a great cloud with flashing lighting and surrounded by brillant light."

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Pictor et Architectus](/latin?word=pictor+et+architectus)
Painter and Designer. One of the founders of the Rosicrucian Order is *"4. Fra F.B.M.P.A. Pictor et Architectus."* [Fama Fraternitatis]. See [129](129)

---

### See Also:

- [6](6)
