## 216 - Two Hundred Sixteen
216 (6x6x6) [3x3x3 + 4x4x4 + 5x5x5]

### [Geburah](/keys/GBVRH) - גבורה
> Strength, severity. Hebrew title of Key 8 and the 5th Sephirah. ([More >>](geburah))

### [Arieh](/keys/ARIH)
> lion, name of the sign Leo. Associated with Key 8, strength. The same power is the source of all our strength. Standard of the tribe of Judah. Symbol of the whole range of the Life-power's activity below the human level.

> [Beginning of text missing]... כפיר, [kephir](/keys/KPIR), a young lion and ירק, [Jerik](/keys/IRQ), agree also in their number; for each of them give [310](310). And now it is known in metallic mysteries that at the very entrance, we meet the enigma of the lion or green growth, which we call the green lion [Note: one authority adds here "which must yet become black and red."] which, I pray you, do not think is so-called, from any other cause but its color. For unless your matter shall be green not only in that intermediate state before it is reduced into water, and also after the water of gold is made of it, remember that this universal dry process must be amended.

> The other names of lions are:

> - לביא, [Lebi](/keys/LBIA), #[43](43), which is a lioness, according to Job.
>   - [Job 4:11](http://biblehub.com/job/4-11.htm): *"The whelps of the lioness shall separate themselves"*;
>   - [Ezekiel 19:2](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/19-2.htm): *'Thy mother being a lioness lay amongst the lions'*.
>   - [Nahum 2:12](http://biblehub.com/nahum/2-12.htm): *"A lioness is there".* [2:13](http://biblehub.com/nahum/2-13.htm) *"The lion did strangle them for his lioness".*
> - Also ליש, [Lish](/keys/LISh), #[340](340), which denotes a fierce lion, which long straight hair: as found in [Proverbs 30:30](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/30-30.htm).

> These two names, in their lesser numbers each contain a septenary for [lebi](/keys/LBIA) numbers [43](43), which gives [7](7), and [lish](/keys/LISh), [340](340), which gives [7](7) also. To these the name puk, פוך, native antimony or stibium, is equal, which sum is [106](106), and its lesser number is [7](7), than which nothing could be more plain. Especially if the surname of that mineral be considered, when it is called the hairy servant, or he with long hair or ruddy haired; with many like names given to it.

> There is yet another name of a lion according to the masters of the sanhedrin in chapter 11, ?for.? 95, col. 2, i.e.:

> - שחץ, [shachatz](/keys/ShChTz); which also the targum uses; and [Psalm 17:12](http://biblehub.com/psalms/17-12.htm); its number is [398](398), in this lesser number it is [2](2).
> - And the Chaldaic word צדידא, [Tzadida](/keys/TzDIDA), #[109](109), shows the same lesser number 2 being used in targum [2 Kings 9:30](http://biblehub.com/2_kings/9-30.htm), [Jeremiah 4:30](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/4-30.htm) (instead the Hebrew word בפוך, [bapuk](/keys/BPVK), which is antimony) for its sum is [109](109), which together with the whole word is [110](110), and its lesser number [2](2).

> At length there also meets us the name of the black lion, to wit שחל, [shakal](/keys/ShChL), whose number is [338](338), and its lesser number [5](5). Now take the least number of the word naaman [210](210), which is [3](3), and the least number of the Chaldaic word פרזל, [parzel](/keys/PRZL), #[137](137), the least number of the word is [2](2), and you will have [5](5), the black lion.

> זהב, [Zahab](/keys/ZHB), gold, is called by the name red lion; and so not only the least number of the names lebi and lish make [14](14), which number zahab hath; but also the least number of the word zahab is [5](5), as I have said but now to be equal to shakal. But under this notion is to be understood gold, either already mortified, or now at length drawn from the mines of the wise men-black in color but red in potency."

### [reahyah](/keys/RAIH) - ראיה
> sight; evidence, proof. Sight is attributed to the letter Heh, and the sign Aries. Vibration is the fundamental nature of the fiery power that makes sight possible.

### [rogaz](/keys/RVGZ) - רוגז
> quivering, trembling, vibration, commotion, restlessness, disquiet, anger, rage. This noun is particularly connected with the letter Samekh. This is the path of Temptation or Trial, and it is because the tests of our faith and devotion, when misunderstood by ourselves and others, appear to be manifestations of the Divine Wrath. The "wrath" is for our good, for our growth and development. Thus those who understand it see in the "wrath" of God the expression of His Perfect Law. Vibration is the basis of manifestation is essentially like sound-fluctuating motion, undulation, pulsation, alternation,
taking wave-forms. see [536](536).

> "...The aspirant to advancement into the second order must rid himself of the notion that his thoughts and acts are merely personal. He must practice zealously to this end. I say zealously, because 'zeal' is one of the meanings of the Hebrew word רוגז intimate that right zealousness is watchfulness in controlling the vibrations of the solar force typified by the lion shown in [Key 8](8). When we remember that our personal activities are really special expressions of solar force, and bear in mind the fact that they are actually, and at all times, controlled by the higher self (the angel of the 14th key), we are on the right track. The work of the [25th path](25) is meant to establish the habit of perpetual recollection that his is the real state of affairs in all that we think, say, and do." [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (3rd), p.88]

###[dam enabim](/keys/DM.ONBIM) - דם ענבים
> Blood of grapes. see [44](44).

### [hahboor](/keys/ChBVR) - חבור
> joined, linked; Place name in [2 Kings 17:6](http://biblehub.com/2_kings/17-6.htm). [spelt ובחבור, and-of-Habor, Interlinar Bible] Also connection, junction; composition, treatise, essay; addition (arithmetic).

### [habor](/keys/ChBVR) - חבור
> company, party; association.

### [tooreh](/keys/TVRA) - טורא
> Mountain.

### [Lekah Jehovah ha-mam lakah](/keys/LK.IHVH.HMMLKH) - לך יהוה הממלכה
> thine, kingdom.

### [niqqayone](/keys/NQIVN) - נקיון
> cleanliness, innocence. [Psalm 26:6](http://biblehub.com/psalms/26-6.htm).

### [ahmqu](/keys/OMQV) - עמקו
> profound, deep. [Psalm 92:6](http://biblehub.com/psalms/92-6.htm). Corresponds to the quality of comprehension derived from the mediational work associated with the path of Teth.

### [palmoni](/keys/PLMVNI) - פלמוני
> numberer of secrets, the wonderful numberer. In [Daniel 8:13](http://biblehub.com/daniel/8-13.htm) this word is translated in the marginal reference of the authorized version as "number of secrets", or "the wonderful number". In the Hebrew dictionary it is given "a certain one" and "anonymous" Refers to the name of Teth (Secret of all Spiritual Activities) to the basis of vibrational correlation, to the comprehension of the "signatures of nature," to the Measuring Intelligence of Chesed and the Geometry of God.

### [aqqaqia](/keys/AQQIH) - אקקיה
> acacia. Found in Rabbinical Hebrew and ties up with the Masonic symbolism of the acacia. see [731](731).

### [baba mitzya'ah](/keys/BBA.MTzIOA) - בבא מציעא
> emtziah. the Middle Gate (Aramaic). Compare with the symbolism of the number 5, representing mediation. Name of a Talmudic treatise of the order N'zikin.

### [debir](/keys/DBIR) - דביר
> oracle, shrine, adytum, inner temple, Holy of Holy; yoni. The apparent sexual teaching is really alchemical, for both יסוד, [Yesod](/keys/ISVD) (80) and דביר, debir, are only symbolized by the bodily organs mentioned. See [156](156), [586](586), [301](301) for esoteric significance. King of Eglon (the calf-like, one who gambols). The name of this king is derived from the Hebrew noun which means "word" (דבר word, saying, statement; report, news, thing, matter, affair; occurrence, event; order, command; cause, case, something, anything.) Debir is a symbol of worldly wisdom based on outward show and appearance. He rules a kingdom described as "calf-like" in reference to the same notion of immature conduct symbolized elsewhere by he golden calf. The kingdom of Eglon is a symbol of the puerility which characterizes the conduct of those whose only standards of action conform to worldly, materialistic wisdom. Joshua, who overcame these kings, is the realization that the nature of the one reality is eternally on the side of liberation. The five kings, on the contrary, represent the psychological basis of very tyranny. The killing of the kings and their armies is really transmutation. see [159](159) Eglion and [259](259) Adonai Tzedek, King of Jerusalem. see [358](358).

### [horeb](/keys/ChVRB) - חורב
> [Exodus 33:6](http://biblehub.com/exodus/33-6.htm), another name for Sinai, the mountain where the Law was given to Moses. see [210](210) (short form).

### [yirah](/keys/IRAH) - יראה
> fear, reverence, awe. Closely akin in meaning to Pachad, another name for the fifth Sephirah.

### [rekhob](/keys/RChVB) - רחוב
> a wide place, breath; an open place; a street. The letters of this word also make up the word Horeb (see above).

### [Lekah Jehovah ha-mamlakah](/keys/LK.IHVH.HMMLKH) - לך יהוה הממלכה
> Thine, O IHVH, is the kingdom [1 Chronicles 29:11](http://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/29-11.htm).

### [Auraob](/keys/AVRAVB) - אוראוב
> Night demon of first decanate of Libra. This decanate is ruled by Venus. See Key 3, the Empress (desirecreative imagination).

## Latin

### [Auxiliante Deo et Natura](/latin?word=Auxiliante+Deo+et+Natura) (Lt)
> aiding God and nature [Secret Symbols, page 5]. This expresses the consciousness of the grade of Greater Adept connected with the fifth Sephirah. The most perfect attunement to this grade is symbolized by the 5 of Wands. A Greater Adept, as self-conscious agent of the perfect Law, uses will power to further the purposes of the Divine and bring nature to perfection.

### [Faciens pacem et creans malum](/latin?word=Faciens+pacem+et+creans+malum) (Lt)
> I make peace and I create evil [Isaiah 45:7, Vulgate]. (Isaiah 45:7). What the unenlightened call "good" and "evil", ascribing them to opposing powers. The wise perceive as originating in the One Life.

### [Lapis Philosophorum](/latin?word=Lapis+Philosophorum) (Lt)
> Philosopher's Stone, the Stone of the Wise. The stable, unalterable consciousness of a Greater Adept who knows himself to be in perfect union with the Father (Chokmah). Out of this consciousness comes the Greater Adept's power to make nature obedient to his will.

> A.E. Waite writes: *"There is no queston that in the opinion of Khunrath the living knowledge of Christ gave that of the philosophical stone in the ordinary alchemical understanding of this term-in other words, for a medicine of metals and of physical human nature... The son of God is called the magnesia of philosophers, the predestined and perfect subject of the philosophicla stone."*

### [sion philosophorum](/latin?word=sion+philosophorum) (Lt)
> Zion of the philosophers. Same as lapis philosophorum. Zion is the adytum in the human brain which we work to build. see [156](156).

### [Mercurius de Mercurio](/latin?word=Mercurius+de+Mercurio) (Lt)
> Mercury from Mercury (SECRET SYMBOLS, page 48). This is one of many names for the Lapis Philosophorum, and has the same meaning.

### [sperma masculus mundi](/latin?word=sperma+masculus+mundi) (Lt)
> Masculine seed of the world. The force of all mighty works of creation. see [64](64), [97](97), [55](55).

### See Also:

- [9](9)