## 217 - Two Hundred Seventeen
> (7x31)

---

### [eveer](/keys/AVIR) - אויר
> air; atmosphere; space, vacuum. Eveer, the atmospheric air or wind, is the same as the Vayu of the Hindus. In the yoga classification of the elements, Vayu means literally "the vibrating." To it is attributed the property of locomotion, or movement from place to place. Vayu is also the subtle principle manifest in the sense of touch. see [471](471).

---

### [uri](/keys/AVRI) - אורי
> fiery, lustrous. The proper name equivalent to the Greek Photinos, "lustrous, bright" derived from phos, light. Uri was the son of Hur, who was the son of Caleb by Ephrath. Uri's son was Bezaleel [1 Chronicles 2:20](http://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/2-20.htm). see [153](153), [208](208).

> Caleb means "dog" and symbolizes the self-conscious mental activity. Ephrath is a designation for subconscious activity. Uri is the Lifebreath manifested in Malkuth, where it is the body-building power following and executing patterns received from above. see [8](8), [214](214).

---

### [bahir](/keys/BHIR) - בהיר
> transparency, clear, bright, brilliant, lucid. The adjective transparency בהיר means clear; bright; transparent; lucid, and is closely related to the word Aur, Light. Title of Beth and the [12th Path of Wisdom](12). There is a basic identity between the 11th (Aleph) and 12th (Beth)-both originate in Kether. Bawhir is closely related to AVR, Light. Beth is used in Hebrew like the English "in" and "into." Its very sound is a concentration of breath and all the ideas associated with Beth and key 1 imply "penetration."

---

### [chart](/keys/ChRT) - חרט
> magic; to engrave. God engraves the patterns of light on all the "signatures" of nature [Fama]. see [257](257), [525](525).

---

### [biyarh](/keys/BIRH) - בירה
> castle, fort; royal residence. In Mishnaic or Talmudic, temple, sanctuary. Similar in meaning to Beth as a house or abode. The place where the highest cosmic development can dwell.

---

### [beriyah](/keys/BRIH) - בריה
> Human being; creature; creation. Self-conscious awareness is the capacity which distinguishes human beings from all other creatures on earth. see [218](218).

---

### [birehayaw](/keys/BRIH) - בריה
> food. The Life-power as light nourishes all creatures.

---

### [Deborah](/keys/DBVRH) - דבורה
> a bee; Old Testament name. [Judges 5:12](http://biblehub.com/judges/5-12.htm): *"Awake, awake, Deborah: awake, awake, utter a song, arise [Barak](/keys/BRQ) (ברק, [302](302) = lightning, brilliancy) and lead thy captivity captive, thou son of [Abinoam](/keys/ABINVOM) (אבינועם, [179](179), father, or possessor, of grace)."* [Paul Case on D.D. Bryant, IX] see [206](206), for root of דבר.

---

### [va-yarae](/keys/VIRA) - וירא
> and saw [Genesis 1:4](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-4.htm). *"And God saw the Light, that it was good."*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"וירא, And-he-did-ken... Moses continues to make the being of beings, the universal creator, speak in the future by turning the expression of his will into the past by means of the convertible sign [Vav]. The verb ראות which is used by Moses on this occasion, signifies not only to see, but to ken, by directing voluntarily the visual ray upon an object. The root רו or רי composed of the sign of movement proper united to the convertible, or to that of manifestation, develops every idea of a stroke, ray, or trace, of anything whatever, being directed in a straight line. It is joined to the root או or אי, expressing the goal, the place, the object toward which the will inclines, there where it is fixed, and forms with it the compound ראי, ראה, or ראות, that is to say, the vision, the act of seeing and the very object of this action."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.34](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/34/mode/2up)]

> According to F.J. Mayers: *"As a man may look in upon himself and consider the capabilities and qualities of his own mental powers, so we are told, did God look in upon himself and 'considered carefully' -- (that is the meaning of the Hebrew word which our English version translates by 'saw') -- 'the intelligence' he had willed into being. He saw that it was 'good' -- suited to carry out his purposes and powerful for the task."* [The Unknown God, p.30]

---

### [tabbur](/keys/TBVR) - טבור
> what is piled up or accumulated, highest point, a height, summit. Also [tibbur](/keys/TBVR), טבור, navel [Mishnaic or Talmudic]. Transparency (Beth) is the result of the greatest accumulation of the treasures of wisdom.

---

### [ribah](/keys/RIBH) - ריבה
> pleading a cause, controversy; a young women, maiden.

---

### [raziy](/keys/RZI) - רזי
> secret; the path of Daleth is the *"essence of time immoral which is the instructor in the secret foundations of Holiness and perfection."* see [703](703).

---

### [Mviosael](/keys/MVIOSAL) - מויעסאל
> Angel ruling Sagittarius. [Key 14](14) is the path linking the higher Self (Sun) sphere of Mercury, or selfconsciousness to the sphere of the automatic pattern world (moon) or Yesod.

---

### [Sahqneb](/keys/SHQNB) - סהקנב
> Lesser angel governing the triplicity by night of Scorpio.

---

### [be'amud aanan](/keys/BAMVD.ONN) - באמד ענן
"in a pillar of cloud". [Exodus 13:21](http://biblehub.com/exodus/13-21.htm): *"And the LORD went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud, to lead them the way; and by night in a pillar of fire, to give them light; to go by day and night"*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [ostendam omne bonum tibi](/latin?word=ostendam+omne+bonum+tibi) (Lt)
Show you all the good. [Exodus 33:19 Vulgate](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=exodus%2033%3A19&version=KJV;VULGATE): *"And he said, I will make all my goodness pass before thee,"*

[Karl von Eckertshausen, The Cloud upon the Sanctuary, introduction]

---

### See Also:

- [10](10)
