## 218 - Two Hundred Eighteen
> (2x109)

---

### [Briah](/keys/BRIAH) - בריאה
> Creation. creature, world, cosmos. The World of Creation attributed to the 1st Heh in IHVH and to the 3rd Sephirah Binah.

---

### [reycha](/keys/RICh) - ריח
> smell, odor, scent. The sense of smell is attributed of Zain, corresponding to Gemini, ruled by Mercury. It is the separative mental activity whereby we discriminate between good and evil. Intellect is the discriminating function of the Ego, which corresponds to smell. Mythologically, Mercury is associated with the Egyptian Thoth, pictured with A Jackal's Head in allusion to that animal's keen sense of smell. see [7](7), [67](67), [108](108).

---

### [borey](/keys/BVRI) - בורי
> perspicuity, clearness. Indicating the definiteness which is the outcome of astute intellectual discrimination.

---

### [zuhar](/keys/ZHVR) - זהור
> clearness, perspicuity [Sepher Yetzirah 1:3] also: splendor, זהור [Zohar](/keys/ZHVR). see [212](212) (variant spelling).

> Chokmah is called the "splendor of unity". In Hebrew this is האחדות זהור [ha-achadoth zohar](/keys/HAChDVTh.ZHVR) [32 Paths 2:5]. The Zohar or Book of Splendor is the archetypal text of Qabalah, along with the Sepher Yetzirah.

---

### [qol ahbaydo](/keys/QVL.OBDV) - קול עבדו
> "voice of his servant". [Isaiah 50:10](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/50-10.htm): *"Who is among you that feareth the Lord, that obeyeth the voice of his servant, that walketh in darkness, and hath no light? Let him trust in the name of the Lord, and stay upon his God."* see [640](640), [82](82).

---

### [kheseph taynah](/keys/ChSP.TINA) - חסף טינא
> "miry clay". [Daniel 2:43](http://biblehub.com/daniel/2-43.htm): *"And whereas thou sawest iron mixed with miry clay, they shall mingle themselves with the seed of men: but they shall not cleave one to another, even as iron is not mixed with clay."*

> Iron has to do with Mars; clay has to do with the instability of physical existence.

---

### [auira](/keys/AVIRA) - אוירא
> ether [K.D.L.C.K. p.55] *"The wise say that the letter Yod in יהוה Tetragrammaton implies the word האור aur, light, from which is this letter Yod which the wise designate immeasurable is called האור light."* see [217](217).

---

### [chesed olahm](/keys/ChSD.OVLM) - חסד עולם
> The benignity of time (or Microprosopus). [IRQ:871] *"But the benighty of Microprosopus is called חסד עולם, the benighty of time."* Microprosopus is Tiphareth, the central Ego of humanity.

---

### [yawrech](/keys/IRCh) - ירח
> the moon. also: ירח ([Yehrech](/keys/IRCh)) month, a lunar month. see [87](87).

> The [Aesch Mezareph](http://www.levity.com/alchemy/aesch8.html) [VIII, p.43] says: *"[Jarach](/keys/IRCh), the moon or Luna in the history of natural things is called the 'medicine for the white', because she hath received a whitening splendor from the sun, which by a like shining illuminates and converts to her own nature all the earth, that is the impure metals. And the place of [Isaiah 30:26](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/30-26.htm), 'the moon shall be as the sun', may be mystically understood of this, because the work being finished, she hath a solar splendor: but in this state, the place of [Canticles 6:10](http://biblehub.com/songs/6-10.htm) belong to her--'fair as the moon'. By the same name the matter of the work is called; of consistence; and like to the full moon in the last state of fluidity and purity. For the words Jarach, the moon, and razia, secrets, also rabui, a multitude, have by gematria the same numbers, because in this matter are found the secrets of multiplication."*

> Westcott: *"Rosenroth adds here:'She is the Shekinah and whether in decrease or at the full, she is a mystery to the student. This increase and decrease are suggested by the name. Irach is referred to the waning moon, and the name לבנה [Lebanah](/keys/LBNH) [#87], to the full moon, when it resembles pure incense, as in [Exodus 30:34](http://biblehub.com/exodus/30-34.htm), [Levunah zakah](/keys/LBNH.ZKH), לבנה זכה, and also the full moon hath a white color, but it accepts which the light from the sun. And six Sephiroth are called the moons' [Sohar, Jethro 34, c. 139]. This Levunah means Frankincense, and the root is לבן [laban](/keys/LBN), meaning white. Zakah is 'consumed by fire.' Irach also means 'scent' and 'smelling' as well as moon and thence 'month".*

---

### [raybuiy](/keys/RBVI) - רבוי
> multitude; increase, plenty; extension of scope, amplification; plural (grammar).

---

### [razia](/keys/RZIA) - רזיא
> arcana.

---

### [etzbown](/keys/OTzBVN) - עצבון
> Translated "pain" in [Genesis 3:18](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-18.htm): *"To the woman he said, I will greatly increase your pains in childbearing; with pain you will give birth to children...."*

> > *"עצבון, the-woeful-natural-hindrances... The word עצב employed twice in this verse merits a particualar attention. It springs from the two contracted roots עץ־צב. The first עץ should be known to us. It is the sameone which forms the name of that mysterious substance whose usage was forbidden to intellectual man. It is not difficult to recognize in it, sentient, corporeal substance, and in general the emblem of that whcih is physical, in opposition to that which is spiritual. the second עב contans the idea of that which is raised as hinderance, swells with wrath, arrests, prevents a thing opposes with effort, etc. Moses employs first, the word עצבון, after having added the extensive syllable ון, wishing in indicate the general obstacles which shall be opposed hence to the unfoldment of that will of intellectual man, and which shall multiply its conceptions, forcing them to become divided and subdivided ad infinitum. He then makes use of the simple word עצב, to depict the pain, the torment the agony which shall accompany the least creations. This hieroglyphic writer would have it understood, that the volitive faculty shall no more cause intellectual conceptions to pass from power into action, without intermediary; but that it shall experience, on the contrary, deviations without number and obstacles of all sorts, which resistance it shall be able to overcome only by dint of labor and of time.*

> > *It is not necessary to say how the Hellenists have interpreted this verse. It is well known in what manner the ideas of Moses were materialized, and how the volitive facility having been transformed into a corporeal woman, the physical hindrances opposed to the exercise of will, have been no more than the pains which accompany child birth. But one cannot excuse the Hellenists entirely of this change. It was an inevitable consequence of the corruption of the Hebraic tongue, of this total loss... In the first place, it is not true that Moses made the being of beings say, that he will multiply the sorrows and the conceptions as the Hellenist translate it, [Greek word]; but that he will multiply the number of the obstacles and the conceptions, as Saint Jerome adhered to the Chaldaic targum as more comfortable with the Hebrew: [tzaarik vaarvayeka](/keys/TzORIK.VORVAIK) צעריך וערואיך.*

> > *Now, I ask, in the second place, who the being of beings could have said to the corporeal woman that we would multiply the number of her conceptions of her pregnancies, as one understands it, since it would in such a manner shorten her life? Would he not rather have said that he would diminishes the number, by rendering them more and more painful and laborious? But the Hebraic text is as clear as the day. There is strong evidence that the Hellenist only abandoned it to follow the Samaritan version, because they plainly saw that it exposed the spiritual meaning, as indeed it does. For, which it is in accordance with reason and experience, to think that the volitive conceptions increase in proportion to the obstacles which are opposed to their realization and which force them to be divided, it is absurd and contradictory to affirm it of the pregnancies of physical woman which are necessarily diminished with the pains, maladies and suffering which accompany and follow them."* ([The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.111-113](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/110))

> F.J. Mayers also observes: *"The word 'Itzebonech', translated 'thy sorrow' is the word 'etzeb', extended and made moעצ re general in meaning by the affix 'on' [עו]. It is a contraction of the two roots עצ '[etz](/keys/OTz)' and צב '[tzeb](/keys/TZB)'. The first is familiar as meaning 'tree' or 'organic substance' etc. The second denotes anything in the way of 'obstacles', 'difficulty', 'opposition', 'prevention'. Combined in 'etzteb' the meaning is 'physical obstacles', 'difficulties of all kinds', 'anxieties', and so on, in realizing one's conceptions, desires and purposes. So long as will was exercised only in the spiritual realm it was free and efficient. Whatever was willed in ipso facto realized. In spirit every one is free. We can think, feel, create mentally, anything we wish, and no earthly power can prevent us. But when we try to realize our conceptions in the physical realm and have to adapt ourselves to physical conditions, we are at once hedged about with obstacles and difficulties of a thousand kinds, and many of our conceptions prove to be absolutely impossible of realization. That is exactly what God explains to Aisha, that 'she' will inevitably find in physical conditions 'she'; could be no longer free, and her powers would be greatly curtailed."* [The Unknown God, pp. 201-202](http://www.organelle.org/as/aschap27.htm)

---

### [betzalymenu](/keys/BTzLMNV) - בצלמנו
> image. literally, in-image-of-us [Interlinar Bible] in [Genesis 1:26](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-26.htm) *"And [God](/keys/ALHIM) said, 'Let us make man in our image, in our likeness..."*

> Thomas Troward writes: *"The first thing we are told about man is that he is made in the image and likeness of god, the spirit of life; therefore capable of manifesting a similar quality of life. But we must note that words 'image' and 'likeness'. The do not impart identity but resemblance. An 'image' implies an original to which it conforms, and so does 'likeness'."* [Bible Mystery and Bible meaning, p.270]

> Paul Case: *"in our image ([218](218)) = ירח, the moon and בריאה, the creative world, which is the second world, reflecting Atziluth."*

---

### See Also:

- [11](11)
- [2](2)
