## 220 - Two Hundred Twenty
> 4x5x11. Circumference of a circle having a radius of 70, symbolizing the horizon established by our limits of vision (Ayin). 10x22 = the number of Sephiroth ([10](10)) times the number of letters of the Hebrew Alphabet ([22](22)).

> *220 is the first of those numbers called 'amiable' or 'friendly' by the Pythagoreans. This word became known to the erudite of Europe who had studied such works as the writings of Nichonachus, Iabblicus and Boetius. Amiable numbers are those in which the aliquot parts or submultiples of the first add to a second number which, in turn, has aliquot parts or submultiples whose sum is the first number. The first pair of amicable numbers is 220 and [284](284). The aliquot parts of 220 are 1, 2, 4, 5, 10, 11, 20, 22, 44, 55 and 110. The sum of these numbers is [284](284). The aliquot parts of 284 are 1, 2, 3, 71 and 142. The sum of these is 220. Now in Greek gematria 284 is the number of **agathos,** 'good', of **hagios,** 'sacred, holy,' and of **theos,** 'God'. Really, the three words are simply different ways of saying the same thing. Thus that to which 220 is amiable, or friendly, is God himself. And since the parts of 284 add up to 220, which the parts of 220 add up to 284, we have here a numerical symbol of just what is implied in the union of the hypoteneuse with the vertical line of teh Pythagorean triangle, and just what is implied by the coalescence of the words 'father and son' in the Hebrew for 'stone'* [True and Invisible, p60]

### [Tahoor](/keys/THVR) - טהור
> Clean, pure, purified Intelligence of the [9th Path](9). The reproductive functions of the automatic consciousness are not evil potencies. Formed by Teth, the alphabetical symbol of the serpent power or astral Light -- spiritual energy manifested physically as the radiance of stars or suns. Heh, the function of sight, both physical and mental vision. What we see determines the response of automatic consciousness. Vav, hearing, or brain activity which puts one in touch with super-consciousness. Resh, the sun, the forces of automatic consciousness are reflections of solar force -- the vibratory energy of cosmic electricity -- the power of pure spirit made manifest on the physical plane. The adjective tahoor means primarily "clean". It gives the lie to all those false notions which put the stigma of ipurity and uncleanness on those powers of organic life which are truly basic in evolution. See [80](80), [87](87), [570](570). *[Gematria PFC]*

### [Car](/keys/KR) - כר
> a male lamb. Initials of the founder of the Rosicrucian Order. Also symbolizing the One Ego, the (CR)istos and for all associated names: The Egyption Khoor (Horus), the Freemasonic KhuRun Abiv (Hiram Abiff), the Hindo KRishna and the Rosicrucian "Father and Brother" C.R. (the founder of the Order). All of these refer to the Holy Guardian Angel, in Tiphareth, the soul of all Humanity. Also battering ram, meadow, pasture *[Gematria PFC]*

> ...The Lamb is one of the Great Gnostic Christian symbols, as well as a favorite symbol of the exoteric church... The son who is one with the father, and therefore mentioned, again and again in the manifestos, as 'our father, brother C.R.'... the distinguising badge of the Masonic fraternity, a symbol of innocence and goodness, is a white lambskin apron... The New Testament [Revelation 21](http://biblehub.com/niv/revelation/21.htm) says definitely that the lamb sits on the throne in the midst of the New Jerusalem, ruling all things from that central position, and illuminating all from the same center... *[True and Invisible, p61]*

> Inman says this word signifies 'he shots around, he encloses' KR car signifies 'a fat lamb, or sheep, or ram; but it also, as KR signifies 'piercing through', 'a peircer'; the root CRR carar, signifies 'to be strong, firm, powerful, or fruitful." [Ancient Faiths, p.391] see [19](19), [440](440), [208](208), [68](68).

### [Bachir](/keys/BChIR) - בחיר
> One of the elect, to select; to choose, chosen one. [Psalm 89:3](http://biblehub.com/psalms/89-3.htm).

> This word is *"applied throughout the Old Testament to Israel, and transferred by Cnostic Christianity to the spiritual Israel who receive the sacred inheritance, not according to the flesh, but according to something higher. The elect, throughout the New Testament, are the Saints, the sacred ones, who are the few selected from the many who are called. They are characterized by compassion, and they are pure, clean, honest and free from all pollution. Thus their natures are described by the adjective **tahoor**, "clean, pure, elegant." *[True and Invisible, p61]* see [540](540).

> [Psalm 89:3](http://biblehub.com/psalms/89-3.htm) "I have made a covenant with my **chosen one.**" [2 Samuel 21:6](http://biblehub.com/2_samuel/21-6.htm) "Gibeah of Saul--the LORD's **chosen one.**"

### [Masu Ha-Bonim](/keys/MASV.HBVNIM) - מאסו הבונים
> Refused by the builders [Psalm 118:22](http://biblehub.com/psalms/118-22.htm) "The stone the builders rejected has become the cornerstone." One of the most important phrases in occult terminology. In the Rosicrucian allegory, it refers to [brother C.R.](/keys/KR). In the New Testament it is expounded as a reference to Christ. It has also a Masonic meaning. see [103](103), [53](53), [273](273).

### [Naphatz](/keys/NPTz) - נפץ
> To break to pieces, to break, shatter; to disperse, scatter. As a noun: [Nephetz](/keys/NPTz) cloudburst, storm, bursting explosion. Compare with [Key 16](16) and its relation to the Mars-force and to Yesod. "Destruction is the foundation (yesod) of existence" [Book of Tokens]. Also: [Nephatz](/keys/NPTz) to be pulverized. Part of the preparation of the alchemical "powder of projection."

### [Roke](/keys/RK) - רך
> Tenderness, delicacy; gentle, bland. The Hebrew equivalent of the initials R.C., said in the Fama to have been adopted by the Rosicrucians as the seal, mark and character of the fraternity. R.C. were the initials of the brother who founded the Rosicrucian order, as well as those of one of the 4 other brethren, who represented the elements required to complete the establishment of the work. Thus brother 'roke' or compassion. *[Gematria PFC]*

> *Tenderness must come first and foremost in work of this kind. Sympathy with human suffering, understanding of human problems through ability to put oneself in another's shoes, unselfish desire to lift the heavy burden of ignorance from the minds of the unenlightened -- these are primary requirements* [True and Invisible]

> The fifth point of the Rosicrucian agreement in the Fama was "that the word R.C. should be their seal, mark and character". See [2](2), [6](6), [19](19), [84](84), [312](312).

### [Vardiy](/keys/VRDI) - ורדי
> Rosy. A Rabbinical Hebrew word of particular importance because of its connection to the Rosicrucian fraternity, which was known from its first manifestoes as the Fraternity of the Rosy Cross. See [260](260).

### [Acharat](/keys/AChARAT) - אחאראט
> brother of Light-Magic. Mystical name of Cagliostro, the adept. אח means brother, member of the same unit, kinsman, friend. אר in Chaldean (also אור) means light. אט means: magician, soothsayer, secrecy. "Brother of the magic of light or hidden light." see [207](207).

### [le-kates](/keys/LQTz) - לקץ
> "at the end", or "at the limit" לקץ הימין, [lequaetz haiamein](/keys/LQTz.HIMIN), "at the end of the days." In the Hebrew dictionary this phrase is rendered "the messianic age." לקץ, in the Massoretic text of the Hebrew edition it is translated "till the end be." קל [qal](/keys/QL) in the Hebrew dictionary has the meaning "the end, the time of redemption, messianic age." [Daniel 12:13](http://biblehub.com/daniel/12-13.htm): *"But go thy way till the end be: for thou shall rest, and stand in thy lot at the end of the days."* see [335](335).

### [musawd musawd](/keys/MVSD.MVSD) - מוסד מוסד
> a sure foundation (literally "foundation-foundation". [Isaiah 28:16](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/28-16.htm): *"Behold I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone, a tried stone, a costly corner stone of sure foundation."* Refers to a precious corner stone. see [53](53), [1973](1973).

### [makalal-yophiy](/keys/MKLL-IPI) - מכלל־יפי
> "the perfection of beauty (out of Zion)". [Psalm 50:2](http://biblehub.com/psalms/50-2.htm). *"Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined."* see [416](416).

### [Kaph/Qoph](/keys/K-Q) - כ־ק
> Jupiter in Pisces.

### [kamea](/keys/QMIO) - קמיע
> a magic square; an amulet. The origin or our word "cameo".

### [nakea](/keys/NQO) - נקע
> alienated. [Ezekiel 23:18](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/23-18.htm), [28](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/23-28.htm) Note: in the Hebrew of the passage cited it is written thus: אשר נקעה [asher naqeah](/keys/AShR.NQOH). *"So she discovered her whoredoms, and discovered her nakedness: then my mind was alienated from her, like as my mind was alienated from her sister"; "For thus saith the Lord God; behold, I will deliver thee into the hand of them whom thou hatest, into the hand of them from whom thy mind is alienated."*

### [sephalim](/keys/SPLIM) - ספלים
> The suit of cups in the Tarot minor arcana corresponds to Briah, the world of creation, and the first Heh of יהוה. Psychologically, the cups are symbols of the powers of imagination. The universal subconscious substance is directed and given pattern through mental imagery, and the whole suit of cups is receptive to universal principles initiated in Atziluth. see ?[980](980) or [480](480)? [text unreadable]

### [riyi](/keys/RII) - ריי
> 29th name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 5th quinance (21°-25°) of Sagittarius. see [251](251), [1525](1525).

## Greek/Latin:

### [Novus Ordo Seclorum](/latin?word=Novus+Ordo+Seclorum) (Lt)
> New Order of the Ages (of the Aeons). One of the 2 mottoes on the reverse of the Great Seal of the United States.

### See Also:

- [22](22)
- [4](4)


