## 221 - Two Hundred Twenty-One
> ([17](17)x[13](13))

	.   Obverse of the Great Seal:
	.   19 clouds of glory + 9 tail feathers   =  4 x 13 =  52
	.   13 5-pointed stars                     =  1 x 13 =  13
	.   26 horizontal lines for azure field    =  2 x 13 =  26
	.   13 letters in motto E pluribus unum    =  1 x 13 =  13
	.   32 feathers in right wing + 33 in left =  5 x 13 =  65
	.   number of pales in escutcheon (7 + 6)  =  1 x 13 =  13
	.   number of arrows                       =  1 x 13 =  13
	.   olive leaves                           =  1 x 13 =  13
	.   olive berries                          =  1 x 13 =  13
	.   total:                                 = 17 x 13 = 221

---

### [Jair](/keys/IAIR) - יאיר
> Jair, the Gileadite.

> [Judges 10:3,5](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Judges+10%3A3%2C5&version=AKJV;WLC): *"And after him [Tola] arose Jair, a Gileadite, and judged Israel twenty and two years... and Jair died, and was buried in Camon."*

> גלעד [Gilead](/keys/GLOD) (#[107](107)) means, "hard, firm; hill of testimony." קמון ([Qamon](/keys/QMVN)) Kamon or Camon (#[196](196)) means "the erect on". From קום [com](/keys/QVM), "to be erect" and אן [On](/keys/AN), city of Heliopolis, connected with the Sun], according to Inman. He also says Jair means "enlightener", for יאר means 'he shines, glitters, blooms, sprouts, flows, etc.' Jair was the Greek form [Ἰάειρος], in which the Jair is united with Epos, Eros, divine love.

> [Mark 5:22](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"And behold, there cometh one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jairus by name; and when he saw him, he fell at his [Jesus] feet."* Note the connection between Peh, Jair the Judge ([Key 20](20)) and ([Key 11](11)), [22](22) years = complete cycle, hardness and erection linked with Mars; and light, which connected with Camon and the Sun. The place where Mars "dies" (i.e. nun = Death) is the center of divine love (Eros) in the heart, or sun.

---

### [Uruk](/keys/ARK) - ארך
> A city in Babylonia, on the boundary with Persia. [Genesis 10:10](http://biblehub.com/genesis/10-10.htm): *"The first centers of his [Nimrod's] kingdom were Babylon, Erech, Akkad and Calneh, in Shinar."* Or a region and city of the boundary of Ephraim. see [331](331).

---

### [Menaqel](/keys/MNQAL) - מנקאל
> "God who seconds and aids all things." 66th Shemhamphorash; angel of the 10 of Swords (Malkuth of Yetzirah). 326-330. TEPISATRAS. May 24, August 4, October 15, December 26, March 8. 9:40-10:00 PM. [Psalm 38:21](http://biblehub.com/psalms/38-21.htm): *"Forsake me not, O Lord: O my God, be not far from me."* Serves to appease the anger of God, and to heal epilepsy. Rules vegetation and aquatic animals, influences through sleep and dreams. Person born: combines all the good qualities of body and soul. He will conciliate the friendship and the benevolence of all good persons by his amiability and the sweetness of his character. According to Godwin, Menaqel is the angle of the 6th quinance (26-30) of Gemini, and angel by night of the 10 of Swords.

> Davidson says: *"Manakel (Menakel, Menaqel) -- according to Ambelain, La Kabbale Pratique, an angel with dominion over aquatic animals."* [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.183]

---

### [Phenetz](/keys/PANTz) - פאנץ
> Goetic demon by night of the 1st decanate of Aries, corresponding to the 2 of Wands. see [1031](1031).

---

### English Gematria:

- [Philosophers Stone](/english?word=Philosophers+Stone) *([Fama Intro p.14](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n14/mode/2up))*. see [152](152) ([Philosophers](/english?word=Philosophers)), [69](69) ([Stone](/english?word=Stone))

---

### See Also:

- [5](5)
