## 222 - Two Hundred Twenty-Two
> (2x3x37). 6x37, the powers of the One Self multiplied by the Ego in Tiphareth.

### [Uriah](/keys/AVRIH) - אוריה
> Light of Wisdom. A compound of אור, [Light](/keys/AVR), with the divine name יה, [Jah](/keys/IH), attributed to Chokmah. Uriah is the husband of Bath-Sheba, "Daughter of the Seven." The "seven" are the 7 spirits of God (Elohim) assigned to Binah. Bath-Sheba is the mother of David (love). David's son is Solomon (peaceful or perfected one). he is the type of complete enlightenment, a symbol for the rising sun (Ego in Tiphareth). see [86](86), [103](103), [15](15), [14](14).

### [Zohir](/keys/ZHIR) - זהיר
> illuminating. Name of the 2nd Path of Chokmah [variant spelling see 262]. The letters of this word form four of the doctrine of the grade of Magus, as follows:

> - *"[Zain, The Lovers](/keys/Z). A magus is a man of discrimination. He is free from the influence of the pairs of opposites, because he has sharply distinguished between the positives and negatives. By keen discrimination between the various polarities of differentiation, a magus is able to combine them, neutralize them, and transcend them. His liberation comes through knowledge, not through ignorance...*
> - *"[Heh, The Emperor](/keys/H). In consequence of this accurate discrimination, which is largely an exercise in perceptive power, a magus gains the ability to measure al experience correctly. Thus the illumination intelligence is largely mercurial, or discriminative. One must watch before he can reason. A magus takes correct measures because he has watched, and because he has watched, he has learned to see.*
> - *"[Yod, The Hermit](/keys/I), illumination, of which the magic of light is at once the consequence and the expression, comes about through subtle chemical and psychic transformations. A magus does nothing of himself. He is an embodiment of the will of God. Thus nothing can withstand him. All things obey him...*
> - *"[Resh, The Sun](/keys/R). There is no self-importance in a magus. He has become the 'little child'. Free from care, free from the burden of false responsibilities, free from the limitations of human conventions and opinions. He extracts the nectar of wisdom from the experience of the eternal now. Thus it is written that he has access to the fruition of all desire whatever, at one sweep, being one with all-seeing self.*

> *"It is noteworthy that this word זהיר is one of the many multiples of the number [37](37), which we encounter throughout the literature of ageless wisdom. Its numerical value is 222, or 6x37. Since [6](6) is the number of beauty, and represents also the perfection of the cosmic order, which 37 is the number of a word that means breath or spirit, and is also, in the Pythagorean triangle, the value of the angle which expresses the relation of the ascending hypotenuse to the base, we see that זהיר, or 6x37 intimates that the illuminating intelligence is the result of the perfect relationship of the personal organism of the magus to the fundamental laws of life. All his thoughts are beautiful, and his words are beautiful and because action and environments are reflections of thought and word, he is continually surrounded by beauty, and that beauty is contagious. This is the reason why magi are always healers and teachers. They heal by their presence. They teach without speech. In their circle of influence ignorance is dispelled, as darkness flies before the sun, and with the cessation of ignorance vanish also the evil consequences thereof."* [True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p.294-296]

### [el-hammaqom](/keys/AL-HMQVM) - אל המקום
> "unto the place." [Exodus 23:20](http://biblehub.com/exodus/32-20.htm): *"Behold, I send an angel before thee, to keep thee in the way (on the path), and to bring thee into the place with I have prepared."*

### [havarah](/keys/HVVRH) - הוורה
> whiteness? from רישא הוורה [resha havurah](/keys/RIShA.HVVRH), the white head, a title of Kether, the place from which the light emanates or flows. see [733](733), [736](736)

### [har tob](/keys/HR.TVB) - הר טוב
> goodly mountain. Mt. Zion, analogous to Kether in Assiah, or human personality. [Deuteronomy 3:25](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/3-25.htm): *"Let me go over and see the good land beyond the Jordan-that goodly mountain and Lebanon."* see [156](156).

### [raviah](/keys/RAVIH) - ראויה ברך
> I will chase. The quest for יה the father, with which this word ends.

### [barak](/keys/BRK) - ברך
> to kneel; to bless. an epithet of God. Also: ברך to praise; to thank; to greet. Reverence aids in attainment. Godwin gives [berek](/keys/BRK): Knee. This is ruled by Capricorn. [Isaiah 45:23](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/45-23.htm): *"By myself I have sworn, my mouth has uttered in all integrity a word that will not be revoked: before me every knee will bow; by me every tongue will swear."*

### [ledaym-chen](/keys/LIDOIM.ChN) - 
> "men of skill" [Ecclesiastes 9:11](http://biblehub.com/ecclesiastes/9-11.htm), i.e. adepts of grace -- Qabalists. *"I return and saw under the sun that the race is not to the swift... not yet favor to men of skill; but time and change happeneth to them all."* It takes work to develop skill.

### [rekeb](/keys/RKB) - רכב
> chariot, chariots; team; riders, troop; upper millstone; branch for grafting. see [Key 7](7), assigned to Cheth, the intelligence of the house of influence. The chariot is the personality and the "branch". It is ground into the new image by the "millstone" or Binah. רכב charioteer, driver, horseman, rider. The higher self. רכב to ride (an animal).

### [yawrib](/keys/IRIB) - יריב
> One who contends, adversary. Written IRIK in [Isaiah 49:25](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"For thus says the Lord: even the prey of the mighty shall be taken away, and the captives of the mighty shall be delivered; and I will contend with him who contends with you, and I well save your children."*

### [ravak](/keys/RBK) - יריב
> to be mixed, mingled; to dip, soak (into oil). Written MRBKTh in [1 Chronicles 23:29](http://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/23-29.htm): *"They [the Levites] were in charge of the bread set out on the table, the flour for the grain offerings, the unleavened wafers, the baking and the mixing, and all measurements of quality and size."* Note that the mixing is also depicted in older versions of [Key 14, Temperance](14). see [702](702).

### [beker](/keys/BKR) - בכר
> a young male camel. Recall that Gimel = camel = subconscoius memory, Moon. In [Isaiah 60:6](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/60-6.htm): *"herds of camels will cover your land, young camels of Midian and Ephah. And all from Sheba will come, bearing gold and incense and proclaiming the praise of the Lord."*

### [kebar, kehbar](/keys/KBR) - כבר
> a river in Mesopotamia. [Ezekiel 1:3](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/1-3.htm): *"The word of the Lord came to Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, by the Kehbar river in the land of the Babylonians. There the hand of the Lord was upon him."*

### [kavar](/keys/KBR) - כבר
> to make heavy; to make many, multiply. [Job 35:16](http://biblehub.com/job/35-16.htm): *"So Job opens his mouth with empty talk; without knowledge he multiplies words."*

### [ve-Geburah](/keys/V-GBVRH) - ו גבורה
> In the Lord's prayer it is "and power". However, in the Greek of the New Testament, the Lord's prayer ends with "but deliver us from evil" (The remainder was added in a later English translation-about the time when the Rosicrucian manifesto was published). "And strength" relates directly to the [5th Sephirah](5), as the preceding word ["the kingdom"], by its Qabalistic meanings, relates to he [4th Sephirah](4) as well as to the [10th](10). see [496](496), [54](54).