## 224 - Two Hundred Twenty-Four
> (7x32)

---

### [derek](/keys/DRK) - דרך
> way, path, mode, course, manner of life. This Hebrew noun, like its Greek equivalent (heh hodos), is used occasionally as a metaphor for worship, or religion. see [314](314), [1024](1024).

---

### [abediy tzemakh](/keys/OBDI.TzMCh) - עבדי צמח
> my servant the branch. [Zechariah 3:8](http://biblehub.com/zechariah/3-8.htm). Understood to be a prophecy relating to the messiah.

---

### [Iericho](/keys/IRChV) - ירחו
> Jericho (alternate spelling). According to Inman it means: reverencing Yah (IH). "Place of fragrance" [Standard Bible Dictionary]. see [234](234). [Deuteronomy 34:3](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/34-3.htm).

---

### [khequqi, chuqqi](/keys/ChQVQI) - חקוקי
> engravings, carvings. The pattern of the Tree is carved like an engraving in the consciousness and subtle vehicles of man. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.338] gives: principia emananoi, and relates them to Chokmah and Binah, the father and mother of the other Sephiroth.

---

### [sandali](/keys/SNDLOI) - סנדלעי
> According to Godwin, the lord of triplicity by day for Capricorn.

---

### [Hiquqiy](/keys/ChQVQI) - חקוקי
> Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.28] gives: effigatura [image, likeness].

---

## Latin

---

### [in centro solis et lunae](/latin?word=in+centro+solis+et+lunae) (Lt)
> in the center of sun and moon. An expression of perfected adeptship. The sun is Tiphareth, and when the Ego is identified as a ray from Kether, the consciousness is "in centro solis." From, here one purifies and reeducates the automatic consciousness in Yesod, sphere of the moon. Then he shares the prerogatives of the "twice-born," expelling all which darkens knowledge and hinders action [Confessio]. see [154](154).

---

### [mea victoria in crue rosea](/latin?word=mea+victoria+in+crue+rosea) (Lt)
> My victory is in Rosy-cross [Secret Symbols. page 35]. see [88](88), [119](119), [154](154).

---

### [Nitre - Tartar - Vitriol](/latin?word=Nitre+Tartar+Vitriol) (Lt)
> Three kinds of the one salt. *"In alchemy, the term nitre is used to designate a certain stage in the preparation of 'salt'. Pernety tells us, in the great art, that a body is put in salt 'to be separated from its earthly parts'. He continues: "There is, properly speaking, only one salt in nature, but is divided into three kinds to form the principles of bodies. These are nitre, tartar, and vitriol, all the others are composed of them"* [ML 44:3]

---

### See Also:

- [8](8)
