## 227 - Two Hundred Twenty-Seven
> (prime)

---

### [berakah](/keys/BRKH) - ברכה
> blessing. [Genesis 12:2](https://biblehub.com/genesis/12-2.htm): *"And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing"*

---

### [zakhar, zayker](/keys/ZKR) - זכר
> male; to remember, to be remembered; applied to a male child, because the memory of the father was thereby preserved in the genealogy of the family; which genealogy was confided wholly to males. [Old Testemant Word Studies, Wilson, p. 265] see [Genesis 1:27](https://biblehub.com/text/genesis/1-27.htm).

> In Blavatsky's Secret Doctrine (1st Ed. volume 3, p.467) it says:  *"In the philosophumena we read that Simon [magus] compared the aeons [divine emanations] to the 'Tree of Life'. Said Simon in the Revelation: "It is written that here are two ramifications of the universal aeons, having neither beginning nor end, issued both from the same root, the invisible and incomprehensible potentiality. One of these (series of aeons) appears from above. This is the great potency, universal mind [or divine ideation...]; it orders all things and is male. The other is from below, for it is the great (manifested) thought, the female aeon, generating all things. These two (kinds of aeons) corresponding with each other, have conjunction and manifest the middle distance (the intermediate sphere of plane), the incomprehensible air which has neither beginning nor end." This female 'air' is our ether, or the Kabalistic Astral light."* Thus the masculine and feminine meanings of the word are reconciled.

---

### [keberah](/keys/KBRH) - כברה
> in alchemy, a furnace. see [656](656), [372](372).

---

### See Also:

- [11](11)
- [2](2)
- [BibleWheel: 227](https://www.biblewheel.com/GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=227)
