## 240 - Two Hundred Forty
> 3x5x16

### [C.R.C.](/keys/KRK) - כרך
> the initials of the brother who founded the Rosicrucian order. see [340](340), [220](220), [320](320).

Brother C.R.C. can be assumed to be *Ipsissimus* in the Rosicrucian Order. This is evident by the abundant references to Kether in the gematria of the number 240.

### [Ram](/keys/RM) - רם
> the high one, lofty, elevated, exacted. Applied to the spirit of C.R., at the beginning of the story. The same word also refers to Kether, the uppermost point of the Tree of Life. It might also be applied to the upper end of the hypotenuse of the Pythagorean triangle, which is the highest point of that symbol. Furthermore, the same word is a component part of the name **חורם**, [Khurum](/keys/ChVRM) or [Hiram](254), which combines or coalesces the two words **חור**, [Khoor](/keys/ChVR), "white" ([214](214)) (applied also to the Egyptian Khoor, Horus, as God of Light) and **רם**, [Ram](/keys/RM), "high". Thus [C.R.C.](/keys/KRK) is that height at which is also termed the white head by the Qabalist, or Kether, the Crown. *[True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p59]*

"Ram" is also a reference to the sign Aries, symbolized by the Ram.

### [Kikkar](/keys/KKR) - ככר
> a circle, district, surroundings. From an Asyriac root meaning "to surround", wich is spelled KRK. As meaning: "a circle," it is closely related in meaning to Kether, the Crown, because Kether is derived from a Hebrew root also meaning "to surround" ([620](620)). A crown in its simplest form is a metal circlet surrounding the head of a ruler. Thus the primary meaning of Kikkar is actually related in Hebrew to the word chosen by Qabalists as a name of the first sephirah *[True and Invisible, p. 59]* see [220](220). A symbol of the one reality. also: a talent (weight = 3000 shekels); round loaf of bread, cake; round weight.

### [awl-penay](/keys/OL-PNI) - על־פני
> "on the face of". [Genesis 1:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-2.htm): *"And the spirit of God [Elohim] moved upon the face of the waters."* Also: on the surface of, in the presence of, in the life-time of. The waters are those of Binah, the great mother.

### [mor](/keys/MR) - מר
> Myrrh, perfume attributed to Binah, sphere of Saturn. also מר bitter; embittered, gloomy, sad; violent, cruel; a drop; bitterness care, worry; מר hoe, rake; sir, master, Mr.

### [naytzawnim](/keys/NTzNIM) - נצנים
> flowers, blossoms. [Canticles 2:12](http://biblehub.com/songs/2-12.htm): *"The flowers appear on the earth; the time of the singing birds is come, and the voice of the turtle is heard in our land."* Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.591] gives: prima gemina and says these are Chesed, Geburah, and Tiphareth, when they first ascend in thought; for that voice denotes the beginning of germination. He cites [Canticles 2:12](http://biblehub.com/songs/2-1.htm) *"Flowers appear on the earth, the season of singing has come, the cooing of doves is heard in our land."*

### [pequdim](/keys/PQVDIM) - פקודים
> numbering, mustering; precepts, orders, commands (spelled פקודין in Psalms).

> - [Psalm 18:8](http://biblehub.com/psalms/18-8.htm) *"The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart, rejoicing the heart; the commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes"*;
> - [Psalm 103:18](http://biblehub.com/psalms/103-8.htm): *"To such as keep his covenant and to those that remember his commandments to do them"*
> - [Psalm 119:4](http://biblehub.com/psalms/119-4.htm): *"Thou hast commanded us to keep thy precepts diligently."*

> Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.29] gives: cash, counted down, paid out.

### [negahoi beni adam](/keys/NGOI.BNI.ADM) - נגעי בני אדם
> plagues of the sons of adam. [K.D.L.C.K. p.563] Refers to the succuba, or night demons, who seduce men with lascivious acts under female form, and excite them to nocturnal pollution, i.e. impure thoughts. This a result of not following the precepts of God. נגע means stroke.

### ???
> [beginning of text missing] This angel is attributed to the 5 of Swords, the operation of Geburah, sphere of Mars, in Yetzirah, the formative world of ideas. depending on the influence of the angel, it can indicate rest from sorrow, yet after and through it; relief from anxiety; rest after illness; quietness; change for the better; success in legal affairs, association with other in mercurial pursuits; strong mental attraction to a person of the opposite sex; activity in writing or short journeys. Or conversely: in harmony with a partner; unsettled conditions in legal affairs; disorder and loss through ill-considered writings or needless short journeys vexations through petty strife and sarcastic speech.

## Greek/Latin:

### [Rota Taro Orat Tora Ator](/latin?word=Rota+Taro+Orat+Tora+Ator) (Lt)
The Wheel of Tarot Speaks the Law of Ator (Nature).

### See Also:3

- [24](24)
- [6](6)







