## 241 - Two Hundred Forty-One
> (prime)

---

### [Zerubbabel](/keys/ZRBBL) - זרבבל
> "offspring of Babylon," "sown in Babylon", "grief of Babylon." One of the leaders of the exile who returned to Palestine. [Zechariah 4:6](http://biblehub.com/zecharaiah/4-6.htm): *"Then he [the angel] answered and spoke unto me saying, this is the word of the Lord unto Zerubbabel, saying, not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord of Hosts."* see [546](546).

---

### [amar](/keys/AMR) - אמר
> to say, word, command.

---

### [ayrawm](/keys/ARM) - ארם
> highland, mountain; Aramea, Syria. Illumination takes place where consciousness is raised to the top of the head. Metathesis of אמר here Mem comes before Resh.

---

### [mara](/keys/MRA) - מרא
> obstinate, rebellious; to fly; to feed, to stuff. [variant of MRH marsu, bitterness]

---

### [zeh ha-derek](/keys/ZH.HDRK) - זה הדרך
> "this is the way". [Isaiah 30:21](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/30-21.htm): *"And thine ears shall hear a word behind thee, saying, this is the way, walk ye in it, when ye turn to the right hand, and when ye turn to the left."*

---

### [awpayquiim](/keys/APQIIM) - אפקיים
> horizontals. Suggest balances, as depicted in [Key 11](11) or Libra, Justice is equilibrated action, which brings the waters of consciousness from feet to head. see [191](191).

---

### [alborach](/keys/ALBRCh) - אלברח
> Literally, 'no flying". note אלברח is one of the alchemical names for the quicksilver (Mercury) of the sages, which is also called "lamb", אמר.

---

### [Samquiel](/keys/SMQIAL) - סמקיאל
> Lesser assistant anger of Capricorn. Mars is exalted in Capricorn; Ayin is the Renewing Intelligence.

---

### [Raem, Ram](/keys/RAM) - ראם
> wild ox; unicorn. Also a family name in [Job 32:2](http://biblehub.com/job/32-2.htm): *"But Elihu son of Barakel the Buzite, of the family of Ram became very angry with Job for justifying himself rather than God."*

> [Deuteronomy 33:17](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/33-17.htm): *"His glory is like the firstling of his bullock, and his horns are like the horns of **unicorns:** with them he shall push the people together to the ends of the earth: and they are the ten thousands of Ephraim, and they are the thousands of Manasseh."* The unicorn refers to Joseph ("multipler"). [Key 19](19) ([Resh](/keys/R)) + [Key 0](0) ([Aleph](/keys/A)) + [Key 12](12) ([Mem](/keys/M)) = [31](31) = length of side lines needed to complete unfinished pyramid on the great seal of the U.S. Unicorn means "single horn" and refers to the third eye, or Mercury center, which when activated, brings illumination.

> [Deuteronomy 34:16](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/33-17.htm) "... Let the blessing come upon the head of Joseph, and upon the top of the head of him that was separated from his breathern." [Spelled also RIM, (verb), RAM, RVM. see Psalm 22:21, 29:6, [625](625) (Greek), [182](182) (Latin). Chinese myth: "Chi-lin, the unicorn, whose appearance is a happy portent" ('chi is the male, 'lin the female).

---

### [A.C.R.C.](/keys/AKRK) - אכרך
Part of the Rosicrucian Engraving, *"A.C.R.C. Hoc universi compendium unius mihi sepulchrum feci"* [Fama Fraternitatis](https://archive.org/stream/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985#page/n23/mode/2up). See [23](23), [512](512).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Confessio Fraternitatis](/latin?word=Confessio+Fraternitatis) (Lt)
Confession of the Fraternity. Title of the second Rosicrucian manifesto. See [95](95), [146](146)

---

### See Also:

- [7](7)

