## 242 - Two Hundred Forty-Two
> (3x11x11)

---

### [El-gibbor](/keys/AL.GBVR) - אל גבור
> the mighty God. [Isaiah 9:6](http://biblehub.com//.htm): "...and his name shall be called wonderful (111), counselor, the Mighty God, the everlasting father, the prince of peace (896). see [216](216), [211](211), [1492](1492), [31](31), [2279](2279).

---

### [Ariel](/keys/ARIAL) - אריאל
> Angel of the element air, ruler of Air. Identified with the 11th Path of Aleph. It also means "hero," "the lion of God," and is a poetic name of Jerusalem. ARI is one spelling of the Hebrew for "Lion." see [232](232).

> Davidson quotes Agrippa as saying that *"Ariel is the name of an angel, sometimes also of a demon, and of a city, whence called Ariopolis, where the idols is worshiped."*

> He also writes: *"In Heywood, The Hierarchy of the Blessed Angels, Ariel ranks as one of the 7 princes who rule the waters and is 'earth's great lord'. Jewish mystics used Ariel as a poetic name for Jerusalem. In the Bible the name denotes, variously, a man, a city [Isaiah 29](http://biblehub.com/web/isaiah/29.htm), and an altar. In occult writings Ariel is the 3rd archon of the winds'. Mention is also made of Ariel as an angel who assists Raphael in the cure of disease... in the Coptic Pistis Sophia, Ariel is in charge of punishment in the lower world... in The Testament of Solomon he controls demons. In Gnostic lore generally, his is a ruler of winds and equated with ?Kabaoth? as an older name for the God. In practical Cabala he is regarded s originally of the Order of virtues. According to John Dee... Ariel is a conglomerate of Anael and Uriel... Sayce. Sees a conglomeration between Ariel and the Arelim... the Valiant Ones spoken of in [Isaiah 33:7](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/33-7.htm), an order of angels equated with the order of Thrones."* see [282](282).

---

### [ve-hukan ba-chesed kissay](/keys/VHVKN.BChSD.KSA) - והוכן בחסד כסא
> *"And in mercy shall the throne be established".* [Isaiah 16:5](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/16-5.htm). The "thrones" are attributed to Binah; their establishment in Chesed indicates that the outflow of fire from the supernals has reached the level of cosmic memory (Jupiter), the highest level of human evolution of the physical plane. see [282](282), [892](892).

---

### [Zechariah](/keys/ZKRIH) - זכריה
> "recollection". Literally, "Yah hath remembered". Name of the prophet Zechariah. Refers to the cosmic memory, an inherent quality of the Life-force, Chaiah in Chokmah.

---

### [Jehovah Jireh](/keys/IHVH.IRAH) - יהוה יראה
> God (IHVH) will see [Genesis 22:14](http://biblehub.com/genesis/22-14.htm). The name Abraham gave to the place where he was delivered from sacrificing his son, Isaac, by the substitution of the Ram. *("And it is said to this day 'in the mount of IHVH it shall be proved'".)* Also Adonai Jireh. see [255](255), [449](449).

---

### [matzokhtzokh](/keys/MTzVChTzCh) - מצוחצח
> Fiery, Scintillating. The 11th path of Aleph. From the verb TzChCh to glare, to reflect brilliantly, the light and heat of the sun, to be dazzling white (the white sun above the fool is Kether, the White Brilliance). As an adjective: brightness, clearness, splendor. see [106](106), [111](111).

---

### [qav la-qahv](/keys/QV.LQV) - קו לקו
> *"line upon line".* [Isaiah 28:10](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/28-10.htm). This is the power emanating from Chokmah, of the One Life. see [106](106).

---

### See Also:

- [8](8)
