## 243 - Two Hundred Forty-Three
> (3x3x3x3x3)

### [Abram](/keys/ABRM) - אברם
High Father. The original name of Abraham before entering a covenant with Yahweh. See [Genesis 12](http://biblehub.com/esv/genesis/12.htm).

### [Netzach + Hod + Yesod](/keys/NTzCh.HVD.ISVD) - נצח הוד יסוד
> Victory + Splendor + Foundation. Names of the three of the four personality sephiroth corresponding to the desire nature or emotions (Venus), the lower mind or intellect (Mercury), and the astral body or automatic consciousness (Moon). These 3 must be purified, balanced and integrated with the physical body (Malkuth) before the birth of the higher self can take place.

### [Marbas](/keys/MARB) - מארב
> according to Godwin, Goetic demon by day of the 2nd decanate of Taurus. The letters of the demon's name suggest the power of the stable mental substance (Mem) in misusing the undisciplined activity of spirit (Aleph) to influence solar regenerative power (Resh) in acts of selfish concentration (Beth). The 2nd decanate of Taurus is ruled by Mercury and has the qualities: deliberate, constructive, conservative. The influence of the demon suggest conscious imbalance, resulting in negative aspect of these qualities. In the Tarot minor arcana this decanate is attributed to the 6 of pentacles. This represents the operation of Tiphareth, sphere of the sun and central ego, in Assiah, the material world of action. The influence of the demon can indicate loss thorough writings, travel, diplomacy, speaking, teaching, commissions, advertising, study, books and all things ruled by Mercury. The remedy is to realize that the one life is above and within human personality, and to adopt a receptive, devotional attitude depicted by the figures who kneel before the hierophant.

### [gerem](/keys/GRM) - גרם
> *bone, strong. From גרם [garam](/keys/GRM); a bone (as the skeleton of the body); hence, self, i.e. (figuratively) very -- bone, strong, top.*

> also גרם: *gnaw the bones, break. A primitive root; to be spare or skeleton-like; used only as a denominative from [gerem](/keys/GRM); (causative) to bone, i.e. Denude (by extensive, craunch) the bones -- gnaw the bones, break.*  [Strong's Condordance]

## Greek/Latin:

### [Domus Sancti Spiritus](/latin?word=Domus+Sancti+Spiritus) (Lt)
> House of the Holy Spirit. In the Rosicrucian allegory (Fama) the meeting place of the order, built by brother C.R., which shows the real nature of the undertaking announced by the manifestoes. *"In the last paragraph of the Fama it is mentioned again, where we read: 'also our building, although one 100,000 people had very near seen and beheld the same, shall forever remain untouched, undestroyed and hidden to the wicked world... Let it be ours to affirm that it is a real building, though unseen; more marvelous than any of this world's other wonders. The way to it stands open today, as in the past, and... None shall fail to find it who seek diligently, in the right direction. And the path which leads to it is the path pictured in the 18th Tarot Key."* [True and Invisible, page 155-156].

> *"The notion that the house of the Holy Spirit is open but on one day of the year would be far from true. Those who know the way to it may visit it as easily in January as in June. Yet it may not be saying too much to declare that the hundredth day of the astrological year is actually a date of special importance, on which Rosicrucians from all over the world do "meet" in the house of the holy spirit. This they can do through their physical bodies may be separated by thousands of miles."* [PFC: OP. Cit. page 169]. see [220](220), [119](119), [60](60), [64](64) Latin, [867](867).

### [fraternitas roseae crucis](/latin?word=fraternitas roseae crucis) (Lt)
> brotherhood of the rosy cross; i.e. the true and invisible Rosicrucian order. see [119](119), [124](124), [238](238) (Latin)

### See Also:

- [9](9)