## 246 - Two Hundred Forty-Six
> (2x3x41)

---

### [Gabriel](/keys/GBRIAL) - גבריאל
> Man (warrior, strength) of God. Procreative Power of God, Might of God. Archangel of the sphere of the Moon and the 9 of Cups. Gabriel is the angel of annunciation. His name stands for the Life-power's manifestation in the processes of reproduction and signifies the strength, virility and procreative force of God. Gabriel is also the Archangel ruling Water and the West and the manifest. It thus corresponds to the Jupiterian good fortune assigned to West on the Cube of Space.

> In [Daniel 9:21] he is called [the man Gabriel](/keys/HAISh.GBRIAL) (האיש גבריאל). In [Daniel 8:17-26](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=daniel%208%3A17-26&version=WEB), Gabriel explains a vision having to do with the end of a timecycle. Thus he corresponds to the symbolism of the West, as representing the end of the day or completion. Gabriel is associated with the last trump of Judgement day.

> In [Luke 1:19-20](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=luke%201%3A19-20&version=WEB), Gabriel appears to the Herald of the Birth of John the Baptist. He announces to Zechariah a new thing, something seldom heard of (חדש [khodesh](/keys/ChDSh), new, fresh). He also appears to Mary, to announce the coming of the [Fountain of Jacob](/keys/OIN.IOQB) (עין יעקב), that her son is to reign over Jacob's house forever, and that his reign will have no end. Finally, the son announced by Gabriel is to be the fulfillment or end of one dispensation, and the beginning of another. Note: Jacob's name means "supplanter". see [312](312).

> Gabriel is from the root גבר to be strong, mighty; to conquer. גבר means: man, male; warrior; cock; penis. see [205](205), [154](154) (Greek).

> Davidson writes that Gabriel is *"One of the 2 highest-ranking angels, in Judeao-Christian and Mohammedan religious lore. He is the angel of annunciation, resurrection, mercy, vengence, death, revelation... Gabriel presides over paradise, and although he is the ruling prince of the 1st heaven, he is said to sit on the left-hand side of God... Mohammed claimed it was Gabriel... of the 140 pairs of wings' who dictated to him the Koran... to the Mohammedans, Gabriel is the spirit of truth...Cabalist identify Gabriel as 'the man clothed in linen' [Ezekiel 9, 10](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Ezekiel+9%2C10&version=WEB) In [Daniel 10:11](http://biblehub.com/daniel/10-11.htm) this man clothed in linen is helped by Michael. In Rabbinic literature, Gabriel is the prince of Justice. Origin in De Principlis 1:18 calls Gabriel the angel of war... the name Gabriel is of Chaldean origin and was unknown to the Jews prior to the captivity."* [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, pp. 117-119]

---

### [mur](/keys/MVR) - מור
> to alter, to change; to exchange, to remove; to barter. All these meaning are in basic agreement with חדש [khodesh](/keys/ChDSh) (new, renew, fresh). As a noun, it is one of the Hebrew spelling for "Myrrh." In the New Testament, Myrrh is mentioned as one of the gifts of the Magi, and is understood to be a symbol for sorrow. Also spelled מר, see [240](240).

---

### [mareh](/keys/MRAH) - מראה
> mahrayaheh. the act of seeing, sight, aspect, view; mirror, picture.

---

### [mareaw](/keys/MRAH) - מראה
> vision, revelation; an appearance, looks.

---

### [murewh](/keys/MRAH) - מראה
> crop, gizzard (where revelations are digested).

---

### [rom](/keys/RVM) - רום
> height, pride, loftiness; apex; on high. A title of Kether.

---

### [room](/keys/RVM) - רום
> As a verb: to rise up, to raise, to be high, uplifted; to exalt oneself; be proud, haughty. Unicorn (also spelled RAM, re'em). see [94](94), [100](100), [241](241), [103](103), [190](190), [182](182) Latin, [194](194), [636](636), [806](806), [254](254).

---

### [middebar](/keys/MDBR) - מדבר
> wilderness, mouth, speech. [Exodus 19:1](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"In the third month, when the children of Israel were gone forth out of the land of Egypt, the same day came they into the wilderness of Sinai."*

> [Psalm 29:8] *"The voice of the Lord shaketh the wilderness; the Lord shaketh the wilderness of Kadesh."* קדש [kadesh](/keys/QDSh) or qadesh means "holy". see [404](404).

> Also מדבר speaker; the anterior part of the tongue; 1st person singular (gram.) see [650](650), [376](376), [206](206), [248](248).

---

### [maregag](/keys/MRGG) - מרגג
> Given without explanation, by Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.29]. This word does not appear in scripture of in the Hebrew lexicon.

> Of its first 2 letters Fabre D'Olivet writes: *"מר The sign of exterior and passive action being united to that of movement proper, constitutes a root whose purpose is to characterize the which gives way to its impulsion, which extends itself, usurps or invades space: but when this same sign is linked by contraction to the root אר symbol of elementary principle, then the root which results is applied to all the modifications of the same element... מר that which is extending and rising, affects the empire, the dominion; as a potentate: that which exceeds the limits of one's authority; as a tyrant, a rebel; that which is attached to the idea of elementary principled, as an ator, a drop."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.393](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/392/mode/2up)]

> Of the last 2 letters, he adds: *"גג. Every idea of elasticity that which stretches and expands without being disunited... the roof of a tent, that which extends to cover, to envelop."* [ibid, p.331]

---

### [Hariel](/keys/HRIAL) - הריאל
> Angel of the 3rd quinance of Libra and angel by day of the 3 of swords. Associated with [[Psalm 94:22](http://biblehub.com/psalms/94-22.htm)], [Godwon] *"Hariel is also known as Harael and Behemial, and is an angel with dominion over tame beast. Hariel is invoked against impieties. He rules science and the arts and is of the Order of Cherubim."* [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.135]

---

## Latin

---

### [Frater Rosae et Aurae Crucis](/latin?word=Frater+Rosae+et+Aurae+Crucis) (Lt)
> Brother of the Golden and Rosy Cross [Secret Symbols]. A plate showing the golden cross of the order, with the explanatory text written on the cross: *"That is the Golden Rosy Cross, of fine gold, which every brother carries on his breast."* see [62](62), [47](47), [58](58), [109](109) Latin.

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
