## 251 - Two Hundred Fifty-One
> (prime)

---

### [mowayir](/keys/MAIR) - מאיר
> Illumination, Luminous, shining. The adjective, [mowayir](/keys/MAIR) [מאיר], indicates a derived luminosity. The [14th path](14) of [Daleth](/keys/DLTh) originates in the Illuminating Intelligence of Chokmah, and Chokmah is the source of its light. Chokmah is the dynamo, and the Luminous Intelligence is the light-bulb glowing with incandescence. see [601](601).

> A rabbinical adjective derived from אור, Light. Imagination, the eye of the soul, the adept learns to use the cosmic imagination by surrendering himself to the direction of the Higher Self, holding the personal mind in suspension ([Mem](/keys/M)). The aspirant must be ready consciously to assume his share of the burden of creation-to become a partner with the Cosmic Self ([Aleph](/keys/A)). Detachment is necessary-identification with the illusion of appearance must be eradicated ([Yod](/keys/I)). The intensity of the initiate's consciousness that he is truly the eternal child of the eternal father is the measure of his understanding and the root of his wisdom ([Resh](/keys/R)).

---

### [imrae](/keys/AMRI) - אמרי
> words (either vocal or mental). [Genesis 49:21](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-21.htm). The verb אמר, [Ahmar](/keys/AMR), whence this is derived, means: to say, but includes also the meaning "to think". Thus words are not uttered syllables only. They include the silent speech of thought; and this is one clue to the inner meaning of [Key 3](3) and the [14th Path](14).

> Also אמיר summit, top (of tree); upper branch.

---

### [Aor ha-bablia](/keys/AR.HBBLIA) - אר הבבליא
> "light of the Babylon (Chaldees)." see [257](257), [297](297).

---

### [oren, aren](/keys/ARN) - ארן
> the pine, a fir or cedar; strength. A slender fir or cedar from which masts were made, carrying the suggestion of uprightness and strength. Variant spelling of the ark of the covenant. see [257](257), [901](901), [448](448) (Greek).

---

### [ha-madehbbar](/keys/HMDBR) - המדבר
> the Wilderness. [Deuteronomy 32:10](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/32-10.htm). This word also means speech. see [206](206), [376](376).

---

### [Uriel](/keys/VRIHL) - וריהל
> Light of God. Variant spelling or Uriel. Compare with Buliver-Lytion's Coming Race. see [248](248), [548](548) (Greek).

---

### [moreh](/keys/MVRH) - מורה
> teacher, master, instructor. By consciously turningover the production of mental images to guidance from the Hierophant, they begin to come into accord with truth and right action. Also: "master", early rain; rebel, archer; shot. In [Joel 2:23](http://biblehub.com/joel/2-23.htm), "former rain." "Be glad then, ye children of Zion, and rejoice in Tetragrammaton your God [Eohikam] for he giveth you the former rain (המורה, #[256](256)) in just measure, and he caused to come down form you the rain (נשם, [343](343)). the former rain, and the latter rain (מלקוש) at the first."

---

### See Also:

- [8](8)