## 257 - Two Hundred Fifty-Seven (prime)

---

### [kartam](/keys/ChRTM) - חרטם
> Magician. see [217](217), [525](525).

---

### [ervon](/keys/ARVN) - ארון
> ark.

---

### [Aorim, Urim](/keys/AVRIM) - אורים
> the east, illuminations, festival lights. lights. The urim or "lights, used for purposes of divination with the thummim. [Exodus 28:30](http://biblehub.com/exodus/28-30.htm). see [817](817), [480](480), [753](753), [207](207).

---

### [mahqel laybanah](/keys/MQL.LBNH) - מקל לבנה
> the white wand. [note: מקל means wand; rod, stick; staff, walking stick. לבנ is the adjective meaning white, but Paul Case wrote the feminine word for brightness, לבנה. This word also means moon and brick (and in the masculine, birch). see [87](87). This seems to suggest a union of masculine and feminine powers. The "white head" is Kether, ultimate aim of the "wand".

---

### [noura](/keys/NVRA) - נורא
> fire; fiery. [Daniel 3:6](http://biblehub.com/daniel/3-6.htm), [7:9](http://biblehub.com/daniel/7-9.htm) *"And who so falleth not down and worships shall the same hour be cast into the midst of a burning, fiery furnace."; "I beheld till the thrones were cast down, and the ancient of days did sit, whose garment was white as snow, and the hair of the head like the pure wool: this throne was like the fiery flame, and his wheels as burning fire."* see [850](850) (Greek).

> Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.568] gives: terribilis (frightful, dreadful), and says it is Tiphareth in all concord or harmony, with respect to Geburah; the middle way is so called since it contains benevolence (mercy) and severity. He cites [Genesis 28:17](http://biblehub.com/genesis/28-17.htm) where the mystery is declared by Jacob: *"He was afraid and said 'how awesome is this place! This is none other than the house of God; this is the gate of heaven."*

---

### [nawaor](/keys/NAVR) - נאור
> enlightened; illumined, splendid, glorious; enlightened, cultured.

---

### [vayomer](/keys/VIAMR) - ויאמר
> "said". [Genesis 1:3](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-3.htm): *"And Elohim said, let there be light: and there was light"*. This word stands for the formative word.

> In [2 Samuel 21:16](http://biblehub.com/2_samuel/21-16.htm) this is translated "and thought" (And Ishbibenob, which was of the sons of the giant, the weight of whose spear weighed 300 shekels of brass... he being girded with a new sword, thought to have slain David"). The word = the thought = the Logos. The light was formed by thought.

---

### [abayney-tzedek](/keys/ABNI-TzDQ) - אבני צדק
> "just weights". [Leviticus 19:36](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/19-36.htm) *"just balances, just weights, a just Ephah, and a just hin [a liquid measure], shall ye have: I am the Lord your God, which brought you out of the land of Egypt."* see [685](685), [302](302), [259](259), 194.

---

## Latin

---

### [Institutrix arcanorum](/latin?word=Institutrix+arcanorum) (Lt)
> Establisher of the mysteries. From a Latin commentary of the 14th path of Daleth (the Luminous Intelligence). Refers to Kashmal (copper). see [165](165), [92](92) Latin.

---

### See Also:

- [14](14)
- [5](5)
