## 259 - Two Hundred Fifty-Nine
> (7x37)

---

### [Reuben](/keys/RAVBN) - ראובן
> Tribe of Reuben. "see, a son". Pisces (Godwin says Aquarius). The ensign of the Tribe of Reuben, according to the Talmud, bore the symbol of a mandrake, in allusion to the story in [Genesis 30:14-16](http://biblehub.com/genesis/30-14.htm). mandrakes were reputed to be aphrodisiac, and thus they relate to the very basis of incarnation. Moreover, they are plants sacred to the Semitic goddess corresponding to Aphrodite, or Venus. here is a connection between the Tribe of Reuben and the sign Pisces, because Venus is exalted in Pisces. Also assigned to alchemical multiplication, the 12th and last stage of the Great Work. Reuben means: "see, a son."

> Multiplication is the act or process of increasing in number or quantity. Here the alchemist augments his elixir by repeated, or iterated fermentation. The whole body is tinged with the consciousness of the Stone. Through the [Corporeal Intelligence](29) a body is built suitable to the Life-power's expression in any environment. Subconsciousness is the active agency of the process during the sleep of the body, and the principle changes occur in the bloodstream, the endocrines and the interior stars. Then the adept can, by mental imagery alone, utilize currents of the universal energy through his body, to heal and to effect other changes in his environment. This leads to projection, the ability to change personality, physically, mentally and morally, and to turn or transmute base metals, "the refuse of the earth" into Gold and Silver. see [7](7), [54](54), [95](95), [30](30), [100](100), [162](162), [395](395), [466](466), [570](570), [501](501), [331](331), [739](739), [830](830).

---

### [tawmir](/keys/TMIR) - טמיר
> hidden, mysterious, secret.

---

### [Tetragrammaton Zikero](/keys/IHVH.ZKRV) - יהוה זכרו
> "The Lord is his memorial". [Hosea 12:5](http://biblehub.com/hosea/12-5.htm). זכר means: memory, resemblance; memorial. זכר with different vowel points means "male."

---

### [nawtar](/keys/NTR) - נטר
> to keep or guard; to bear grudges. "Keeper" in [Canticles 1:6](http://biblehub.com/songs/1-6.htm): *"Do not look at me because I have dark skin, because the sun has tanned me; my mother's sons contended with me; they made me the keeper of the vineyards; but my own vineyard I have not kept."*

> In [Nahum 1:2](http://biblehub.com/nahum/1-2.htm): *"God is zealous, and the Lord is avenging; the Lord is avenging and is furious; the Lord will take vengeance on his adversaries, and he keeps wrath for his enemies."*

> Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.30] also gives: nitre. According to the Oxford dictionary nitre is potassium nitrate or saltpeter, and ingredient in gunpowder, other wise called natron. In earlier times it was supposed bo the an nitrous element in the air or in plants. Written NThR in [Jeremiah 2:22](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/2-22.htm) *"Although you wash yourself with soda, and use an abundance of soap, the stain of your guilt is still before me, declares the sovereign Lord."* see [650](650). (this may be a variant spelling).

---

### [lahat ha-khereb](/keys/LHT.HChRB) - להט החרב
> The flaming sword [Genesis 3:24](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-24.htm). Understood to be a symbol for the holy influence (מזלא [Mezla](/MZLA), [78](78)), descending from sephirah to sephirah through the Tree of Life. It has the same basic meaning as the flash of lighting of [Key 16](16). Note that להט [lahat](/keys/LHT) = [44](44) = דם [dam](/keys/DM) (blood). החרב [ha-khereb](/keys/HChRB) = [215](215) = אורח [aurch](/keys/AVRCh) (a narrow way) = זרח [zarach](/keys/ZRCh) (to irradiate, to rise [as the sun]). The magical force is in the blood. It is called the flaming sword in the story of the fall of man, because that story refers to the descent of consciousness from higher and inner planes to the physical. The sword "turns every way" because it is the fire force in the blood-stream, circulating through our bodies, and therefore turning every direction. It keeps us out of Eden, for the time being, so that we may gain knowledge of the physical plane. Yet this same force in our blood is what we must learn to use in order to overcome the delusions which cause all our difficulties. Lawhat, (flaming) means also magical, or the force of enchantment.

---

### [gawron](/keys/GRVN) - גרון
> throat; neck. [Mathers, Sepher Sephiroth, p.30]. Site of the Venus center. In [Isaiah 3:16](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/3-16.htm): *"The Lord says, the woman of Zion are haughty, walking along with outstretched neck, flirting with their eyes, tripping along with minking steps, with ornaments jingling on their ankles."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Basileia](/greek?word=basileia) (Gr) - βασιλεία
> Kingdom (new testament); Also queen.

---

### [hoi themelioi](/greek?word=oi+themelioi) (Gr) - θεμέλιοι
> the foundations. This occurs in [Revelation 21:19](http://biblehub.com/revelation/21-19.htm). The foundations are stones, bearing the names of the 12 apostles who correspond, like the tribes of Israel, to the 12 zodiacal signs. See [2590](2590) Greek.

---

### [heh onnoia](/greek?word=h+onnoia) (Gr) - η οννοια
> The faculty of thinking; thought, idea. Olomai means: to sppose, think, believe, as opposed to knowing. see [194](194) Greek.

---

### [inveni verbum in ore leonis](/latin?word=inveni+verbum+in+ore+leonis) (Lt)
*"Discover the word in the lion's mouth."* see [126](126).

---

### See Also:

- [18](18)
- [9](9)