## 261 - Two Hundred Sixty-One
> (3x87)

---

### [Moriah](/keys/MVRIH) - מוריה
> "seen of Jah"; a mountain on which Hiram died, and on which the temple of Solomon was built. *"The implication of this Qabalist is that the 'temple' is erected on a foundation of fire. Mount Moriah signifies 'the hill of divine vision.' Furthermore, [Jah](/keys/IH) or יה, is the special divine name attributed to the sephirah Chokmah, which is also the 'root of fire.'"* [Great Work Ch:19] see [255](255).

> *"Moriah is the name given to a mountainous region by the Book of Genesis, in which context it is the location of the sacrifice of Isaac."* [[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moriah)]

> [Genesis 22:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/22-2.htm): *"And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of **Moriah**; and offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of."*

> [2 Chronicles 3:1](http://biblehub.com/2_chronicles/3-1.htm): *"Then Solomon began to build the house of the LORD at Jerusalem in **mount Moriah,** where the LORD appeared unto David his father, in the place that David had prepared in the threshingfloor of Ornan the Jebusite."* see [behar hamoriah](/keys/BHR.HMVRIH).

---

### [Adam + Chavah + Cain + Habel](/keys/ADM.ChVH.QIN.HBL) - אדם חוה קין הבל
> The first father (humanity) + the first mother (nature) + the false crown of will-power (Cain) + "a fleeting breath" (volatility of Mercury). see [1471](1471), [45](45), [19](19), [160](160), [37](37).

---

### [Leraik](/keys/LRAIK) - לראיך
> Lerake; Goetic demon by day of the 2nd decanate of Leo. The demon's name suggest mis-guided action (Lamed) and use of regenerative solar force (Vav) in erratic activities (Aleph) resulting in a false sense of personal will (Yod) in an endless quest to manifest kill (Kaph). see [741](741). The 2nd decanate of Leo is ruled by Jupiter and has the qualities: kindly, tolerant, urbane. The influence of this demon suggest conscious imbalance. In the tarot minor arcana this decanate corresponds to the 6 of wands, which is the operation of Tiphareth, sphere of the sun or higher self, in Atziluth, the wold of archetypes. When negatively aspected, as here, it can indicate loss through love affairs or by the opposite sex; waste in pleasure and trouble through pride or riches or through insolence based of success. The remedy to this is correct understanding of the true source of personal egoic feelings.

---

### [dayraon](/keys/DRAVN) - דראון
> aborhance, abomination, loathsome. In [Isaiah 66:24](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/66-24.htm) *"And they will go out and look upon the dead bodies of those who rebelled against me; their worm will not die, nor will their fire be quenched, and they will be loathsome of all mankind."*

---

## Latin

---

### [Vince in Hoc, Deo duce, comite ferro](/latin?word=Vince+in+Hoc+Deo+duce+comite+ferro) (Lt)
> *"I conquer in the (sign), with God my guide, my sword my companion."* Motto engraved on reverse of pommel of magic sword [Eliphas Levi]. "I conquer in this sign" refers to the cruciform shape of the sword. Designates the letter Tav, the vibration of Saturn, and the crystallizing, specializing power of human activity. This is the secret of magical victories. "Deo Duce." We do so as conscious instruments of the Life-power. "Comite Ferro", the sword is our companion, our agency, our aid. It is the equliberated use of the Mars force to overcome all errors. see [236](236), [93](93). [Vav or יהוה symbolizes the magical sword. To wield it is to make use o the potencies of sound-vibration, which is the basic power in all production of forms.]

---

### See Also:

- [9](9)
