## 264 - Two Hundred Sixty-Four
> (3x8x11)

### [Gematria](/keys/GMATRIA) - גמאטריא
> gematria.

### [Dam-Car](/keys/DM-KR) - דם־כר
> Blood of the lamb. The mystical "place" in "Arabia" where brother C.R. round the wise men who initiated him [Fama]. *"Brother C.R. became acquainted with the wise men of Damcar in Arabia, and beheld what great wonder they wrought, and how nature was discovered unto them. Thus refers to the first awakening of the interior hearing and interior sight. Interior hearing comes first, as a rule, and by means of it we 'become acquainted with the wise men...' As the Body is purified, and the Venus center in the throat begins to perform its subtle functions, which include the release of certain substances from the endocrine glands it the throat into the blood-stream one begins actually to hear the wise men... It is followed by interior vision... a heightened mental perception whereby one sees with the mind's eye the nature of the powers of truly liberated humanity... Brother C.R. learned about his medicine and mathematics at Damcar, because physical work of initiation is based on occult mathematics, that is, on the actual geometric proportions governing the manifestation of all forms in nature. The initiatory word is also a work of occult medicine because it has to do with control of forces whose first awakening is represented by... the friendliness of the Turks at Damascus."* [True and Invisible, page 116, 119, 121]. see [16](16), [444](444), [44](44), [220](220), [30](30), [824](824); [2863](2863) (Greek).

### [yarden](/keys/IRDN) - ירדן
> "Descending"; "that which flows down". Jordan, the river of Palestine. Associated by qabalistic alchemist with the "Water of Minerals", that is, the fludic energy which takes form as minerals (as well as everything sense). Esoteric interpretations associate the Jordan with the blood stream of man. In the Rosicrucian allegory "the mysterious temple of Damcar is a place where C.R... gained knowledge of the mystic fludic energy" [op. cit., p.5] *"That which flows down--down into the dead sea. The symbol of the mystic river of manifestation, flowing down to death--the stream of Maya, the illusive power of manifestation."* [K.D.L.C.K. p.455] see [Genesis 13:10](http://biblehub.com/genesis/13-10.htm); [253](253), [914](914); [243](243) (Greek).

> The [Aesch Mezareph](http://www.levity.com/alchemy/aesch7.html) [VII, p.38] says:

> > *JARDEN, denotes a Mineral Water, useful in the cleansing of Metals, and Leprous [i.e. impure metallic ores] Minerals. But this Water flows from two sources, whereof one is called [Jeor](/keys/IAR), i.e., a fluid, having the Nature of the Right Hand, and very Bountiful ['Jamin' is the right side]. The other is called [Dan](/keys/DN) [[Deen](/keys/DIN), justice, severity; referred to דן Dan, the name of the tribe], Rigorous and of a sharp Nature.*

> > *But it flows through the Salt Sea, which ought to be observed, and at length is thought to be mixed with the Red Sea; which is a Sulphurous Matter, Masculine, and known to all true Artists.*

> > *But know thou, that the Name [Zachu](/keys/ZKV), i.e., Purity, being multiplied by 8, the Number of Yesod, produces the Number [Seder](/keys/SDR), i.e., Order, which is 264 (264 = 33 x 8). Which Number is also contained in the word Jarden; thus you may Remember, that at least Eight Orders of Purification are required, before the true Purity follows.*

> Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.338] gives: Jarden, and says it denotes a mineral water, etc.

### [khakuqim](/keys/ChQVQIM) - חקוקים
> emanations. C.R. came into more direct contact with the emanations of the Life-power. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.338] says that Chokmah, Binah, and Tiphareth are the first emanations.

### [mardak, mayredawk](/keys/MRDK) - מרדך
> footsteps, a space trodden upon; footprints, vestiges. C.R. recovered the vestiges of past experiences at Dam-car. [Deuteronomy 2:5](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"Meddle not with them, for I will not give you to their land, no, not so much as a foot breath..."*

### [sadar](/keys/SDR) - סדר
> to arrange, order, a straight row. C.R. established logical sequence and order (a straight row) in his ideas. [Sepher Yetzirah 5:16] *"...he made them (Pisces) as a conflict, drew them up like a wall..."* In [K.D.L.C.K. p.455] it is spelled סדור [sadur](/keys/SDVR) and means: arrangement, order; offering, present; prayer-book, emanation; system, plan; setting up type. Rosenroth states in the above quotation from Aesch Mezareph that the word purity, multiplied by 8, the number of Yesod, produces the number 264: seder, order, thus at least 8 orders of purification are required before true purity follows.

### [rahatim](/keys/RHTIM) - רהטים
> gutters, troughs, channels, pipes. Human beings are channels of the Universal Life.

## Greek/Latin:

### [aletheias](/greek?word=alhtheias) (Gr)
> of truth. The place of truth is Dam-car, where the "angel of truth" may be found. see [376](376), [112](112) Greek.

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)