## 273 - Two Hundred Seventy-Three
> (3x7x13). 21x13 = 273 = number of 13s on the great seal of the U.S.

### [orba](/keys/ORBA) - ערבא
> raven. an alchemical term. related also to Binah, Arabia, sterility or agreeableness. see [272](272), [136](136) (Latin).

### [ehben masu ha-bonaim](/keys/ABN.MASV.HBVNIM) - אבן מאסו הבונים
> the stone which the builders refused [Psalm 118:22](http://biblehub.com/psalm/118-22.htm). (Masu is from מאס: to despise, reject, refuse.) A reference to the philosopher's stone. The principle of human equality, founded upon the presence of the mystical Christos with the temple of every personality. The syllables of the "substitute" of the lost word is concealed in these 3 words. see [108](108), [142](142) Latin.

> The Zohar [I:72A, p.244] says *"It is written, as for me, I shall behold thy face in righteousness; I shall be satisfied when I awake with the likeness" [Psalm 18:15](http://biblehub.com/psalms/18-15.htm). King David felt great affection and attachment for the stone: it was of it that he said, 'the stone which the builders rejected is become the corner-stone'... and whenever he desired to gaze at the reflection of the glory of his master, he first took that stone in his hand and then he entered, as whoever wishes to appear before his master can only do so through that stone, as it is written, 'Here with shall Aaron come into the holy place' [Leviticus 16:3](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/16-3.htm). It was David's boast that 'As for me I shall behold thy face in righteousness, 'and he exerted himself in every way to appear before him on high in proper guise by means of..." [text ends]*

### [aur genoz](/keys/AVR.GNVZ) - אור גנוז
> the Hidden Light. Transmitted from generation to generation through the mystery schools (see 203).

### [Khurum Abiv, or Hiram Abiff](/keys/ChVRM.ABIV) - חורם אביו
> the name of the central figure in the legend of Freemasonry. One of the three original Master Masons. see [254](254). Hiram was the son of a widow who was of the tribe of Naphtali (Virgo). see [80](80). In the Egyptian mysteries Khoor or Horus, the Hawk-headed God, was the probable derivation of the name Hiram. Note that Horus, Hiram, Krishna, Christ and C.R. all have the sound (חור). see [19](19), [640](640), [465](465), [1378](1378), [833](833) (Greek).

> *"Among the manuscripts of Dr. Sigismund Bacstron, the initiated Rosicrucian, appears the following extract from Von Welling concerning the true philosophic nature of the Masonic Chiram: 'The original word חירם, [Chiram](/keys/ChIRM), is a radical word consisting of three consonants Cheth, Resh and Mem, i.e. Cheth, Resh, and Mem. (1) Cheth, signifies chamah, the sun's light, i.e. the universal, invisible, cold fire of nature attracted by the sun, manifested into light and sent down to us and it every planetary belonging to the solar system. (2) Resh, signifies רוח Ruach, i.e. spirit, air, wind, as being the vehicle which conveys and collect the light into numberless foci, wherein the solar rays of light are agitated by a circular motion aad manifested in heat and burning fire. (3) Cheth or Mem, signifies mayim, water, humidity, but rather the mother of water, i.e. radical humidity or a particular kind of condensed air. These three constitute the universal agent or fire of nature in one word חירם, chiram, not Hiaram'"* [Manly Hall: The Secret teachings of All Ages, p.78]

### [arba](/keys/ARBO) - ארבע
> four. The principle of equality symbolized by the 4 equal lines of a square, incorporated into the pyramid of the Great Seal of the U.S. Also the four elements, balanced in human personality.

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"ארבע, four... its root RB involves every idea of strength, of solidity, of greatness, resulting form extent and numerical multiplication... formed of the sign of movement proper Resh, and that of generative action, contains all ideas of grandeur and multiplication. If the last character is doubled, as in רבב, this would acquires an endless numerical extent; if it is followed by the sign of material sense, as in רבע, it becomes the expression of solidity, of physical force, and of all ideas attached to the cube. It is in this state that it represents the number four."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp. 78, 153].

> For other numerals, see [13](13), [400](400), [636](636), [348](348), [600](600), [372](372), [395](395), [770](770), [570](570), [441](441).

### [gawar](/keys/GOR) - גער
> "he rebuked," to reburek, scold; to curse. [GOR reproach, reproof]. The refusal of Hiram Abiff to reveal the master Mason's word. The Declaration of Independence rebuked the tyranny and oppression of the British crown, to establish a "new order of the ages".

### [gawrah](/keys/GRO) - גרע
> "He took away", to withdraw, diminish, to restrain, to subtract; to form kernels (of fruit). In his death Hiram takes away the secret-the hidden light of Freemasonry.

### [rawgah](/keys/RGO) - רגע
> "He set in motion"; "he analyzed." The Declaration of Independence set in motion a series of political changes which have transformed the world. It analyzed the fundamentals of natural law. The hidden light sets in motion changes in human personality. [רגע is connected by Mathers with square in chapter 1 of the 3rd book of Abra-melin, in connection with יראגע].

### [Uraniah](/keys/AVRANIH) - אוראניה
> Urania, Greek muse of Astronomy.

### [Elphas Levi Zahed](/keys/ALIPZ.LVI.TzHD) - אליפז לוי צהד
> Pseudonym of Alphonse Louis Constant. see [128](128), [46](46), [99](99).

## Greek

### [athanasia](/greek?word=athanasia) (Gr) - ἀθανασία
> immortality. The Declaration of Independence based its doctrine on the principal of immorality, familiarized in the Masonic Legend of Hiram Abiff. This is the stone which the builder rejected and the "hidden light".

> Written ἀθανασίαν in [1 Corinthians 15:53](http://biblehub.com/1_corinthians/15-53.htm), [54](http://biblehub.com/1_corinthians/15-54.htm) *"For this corruptible must be clothed with incorruptibility; and this moral must be clothed with immorality. (54) and when this corruptible shall be clothed with incorruptibility, and this mortal, shall be clothed with immortality, then will that word be accomplished which has been written, 'death was swallowed up in victory.'"*

> Also with reference to the king of kings, Christ, in [1 Timothy 6:16](http://biblehub.com/1_timothy/6-16.htm): *"The only one posssessing immortality, inhabiting light inaccessible; whom no one of man has seen, nor is able to see; to whom be honor and might everlasting. Amen."*

### [heh kleis](/greek?word=h+kleis) (Gr) - ὴ κλεῖς
> the key. Literally "A thing to close the door with" from the outside (as well as what opens the door, i.e. Daleth-creative imagination, to the inside). *"The key to the house of David ... mentioned in [Isaiah 22:22](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/22-22.htm) and also alluded to in [Revelation 3:7](http://biblehub.com/revelation/3-7.htm)."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p.92] see [954](954), [528](528).

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
