## 277 - Two Hundred Seventy-Seven
prime.

---

### [zerah](/keys/ZRO) - זרע
> seed, fruitfulness, sperm. One of the pairs of opposites (creativity, fertility) assigned to the letter Resh. see [200](200), [385](385), [785](785). "Seed" is also connected with the power of the letter Nun (to sprout, to grow).

---

### [Lamarbah](/keys/LMRBH) - למרבה
> "for multiplying."

---

### [rahayva](/keys/ROVA) - רעוא
> grace, benevolence; will, pleasure [Aramaic]. Mathers gives gratia, benevolentia.

---

### [gimahtria](/keys/GIMTRIH) - גימטריה
> gematria; geometry (variant spelling).

---

### [Sahibar](/keys/SHIBR) - סהיבר
> Angel of the 3rd decanate of Leo. This decante is ruled by Mars, and suggest the qualities: fearless, outspoken, animated.

---

### [ha-kerubim](/keys/HKRBIM) - הכרבים
> "The Cherubim" [Genesis 3:24](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-24.htm) *"So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the Garden of Eden Cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the way of the Tree of Life."*" see [272](272), [678](678).

---

### [Kimaur](/keys/KIMAVR) - כימאור
> Kimaris; according to Godwin, Goetic demon by night of the 3rd decanate of Capricorn. The last three letters of this name suggests אור aur, light.

> Fabre D'Olivet comments of this root: כם: *"Every tension, inclination, desire for assimilation."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.373](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/372)]

> The letters of the name suggest false grasp (Kaph) of the disciplined power of spirit (Aleph) to flow into, linking it (Vav) to personal abuse of the solar regenerative power. The 3rd decanate of Capricorn is ruled by Mercury and has the qualities: profound, aloof, taciturn. The influence of the demon suggest subconscious imbalance, resulting in negative aspects of these qualities. In the tarot minor arcana this decante is assigned to the 4 of pentacles. This represents the operation of Chesed, sphere of cosmic memory in Assiah, the material world of action. When ill-aspected, as here, this can indicate dangers to reputation, sharp criticism. The remedy lies in learning to rightly manage our relationships, circumstances and conditions in life by realizing that personal activities are expressions of some cycle of cosmic activity.

---

### See Also

- [16](16)
- [7](7)