## 284 - Two Hundred Eighty-Four
> An amicable number, whose aliquot parts are 1, 2, 4, 7, and [142](142). The sum of these is [220](220), another amicable number. see [220](220).

### [Ambriel](/keys/AMBRIAL) - אמבריאל
> Archangel of Gemini.

### [yarad](/keys/OIRD) - עירד
> fugitive. "I am the eternal fugitive." [Book of Tokens, Heh]

### [ki le-olahm khasdow](/keys/KI.LOVLM.ChSDV) - כי לעולם חסדו
> His love [kindness, mercy] endures forever. [Psalm 118:2](http://biblehub.com/psalms/118-2.htm).

> > Thomas Troward: *"The key note is the Mercy of 'God'. This is the very opposite of the conception of God which looks on him as always seek vengeance, and this therefore is the true ideal of God. We realize our idea. 'giechst dem geist den du begeifst' says Goethe, and that is the Alpha and Omega of the whole matter... the God of Gods... is a distinguished from the God of forces. God is both, but it is the former conception that is life-giving to us, for it means reflection itself as individualized God."*

> > [John 10:36](http://biblehub.com/john/10-36.htm): *"Of him whom the father set apart and sent into the world, do you say 'thou blasphemest'; because I said 'I am a son of God.'"*

> > Paul Case: *Mercy in Hebrew is Chesed, the 4th Sephirah, and mercy is properly translated 'beneficence, kindness, love." It is from a verbal root signifying primary 'to be filled with earnest and eager desire.' The continually recurring phrase in the Psalm is written כי לעולם חסדו = 284. This number is the reciprocal of [220](220), and is the number of עירד 'fugitive'. In Greek, 284 is the numbers of αγαθός, 'good', of άγιος, 'holy, sacred', and of θεός, 'God'. The divine name attributed to Chesed in Qabalah is אל, [El](/keys/AL), 'The Strong One'. This name of God is derived from a verb meaning primarily 'to roll, twist, to twirl'. Others give the meaning of the verbal root as 'to be in front'. There meanings suggest the idea that the primary or leading power is whirling twisting force. Similarly, Kether on the Tree of Life is called 'the beginning of the whirlings'. Note also that [chesedu](/keys/ChSDV) חסדו, 'his mercy' = 78 = [melakh](/keys/MLCh) מלח, salt = [lechem](/keys/LChM) לחם, bread = [mezla](/keys/MZLA) מזלא, influence. The preservative salt, the bread which is the staff of life; and they holy influence descending from Kether (which is compared to 'precious ointment' is Psalm 133) are all associated together. The main idea is that the primary power is beneficent, and the recurrent affirmation that this power is [le-olahm](/LOVLM) (לעולם), or endures forever taken in connection with the statement that God is immutable, gives us assurance that God is always beneficent, always earnestly desirous of the welfare of his personal manifestations. Chesed, on the Tree of Life, is the reflection of Chokmah. The divine wisdom can have no other direct expression than beneficence."*

> [Troward on Psalms, Psalm 136, pp.176-177]

## Greek/Latin:

### [Theos](/greek?word=theos) (Gr) - θεός
> God [John 1:1](http://biblehub.com/john/1-1.htm). see [703](703) Greek, [740](740), [592](592), [785](785), [373](373).

### [haglos, hagios](/greek?word=agios) (Gr) - άγιος
> Holy one; saint, sacred, holy. A reference to Christ. see [703](703), [720](720).

> Also means: devoted to the Gods, pious, pure. Also worthy of respect, reverence, veneration; of God in [Revelation 4:8](http://biblehub.com/revelation/4-8.htm): *"And the four living ones, having each of them six wings apiece, round about and within are full of eyes; and they have no rest day and night, saying 'Holy, holy, Lord God the omnipotent! The one who was, and the one who is, and the one who is coming."*

> Also in [Revelation 6:10](http://biblehub.com/revelation/6-10.htm): *"And they cried with a loud voice, saying 'how long, O sovereign Lord! The holy one and true. Dost thou not judge and take vengeance for our blood from those who dwell on the earth?"* see [592](592), [524](524) (Greek).

### [agathos](/greek?word=agathos) (Gr) - αγαθός
> Good.

> These three words are simply different ways of saying the same thing. Thus that to which number [220](220) is amicable or friendly, is God Himself. This word has a number of shades of meaning:

> - A) distinguished for good and eminent qualities and character-of persons and things;
> - B) in a physical sense, good as opposed to bad;
> - C) in a moral sense, good, well-disposed, upright-of persons, things, actions;
> - D) good things, right virtue, good in respect of operation, doing good;
> - E) good, in respect to the feelings excited, i.e. glad, joyful, happy.

> Also in [Matthew 12:35](http://biblehub.com/matthew/12-35.htm): *"The good man out of his good treasure produces good things; and the evil man out of his bad treasure produces evil things."* see [2357](2357).

### [Sub umbra alarum tuarum Iehova](/latin?word=Sub+umbra+alarum+tuarum+Iehova) (Lt)
> Under the shadow of thy wings, Jehovah (see [255](255)).