## 285
> (5x57)

---

### [rahayaw](/keys/ROIH) - רעיה
> friend, beloved. To arrive at the city in the heart is to unite oneself with the beloved friend. Then one knows that all men are friends and brothers, made one in love. see 320. Note this word is a metathesis of HOIR; the letters Heh and Resh have been transposed. The city is sought via clear vision (Heh); the friend is recognized via the process of regeneration (Resh). Both require edrei, or strength.

> edrei, cont. Inman says "The word is probably a variant of ADR adar, which means 'to shine, be splendid, renowned', etc. Also 'great, swelling, inflated, magnificent, large' (p.470). The word ADR also meas "to glorify". see [205](205).

> [beginning of text missing] "soft rich soil" (see Key 3) and lies east of Jordan ("that which flows down"). East is attributed to Daleth on the Cube of Space. Astaroth is Syrian fertility goddess connected with Venus. Og, OVG, say Inman means "he goes in a circle", i.e. the sun, and the golden dawn of illumination is sought in the mystic east. When the force of Mars, symbolized by edrie is conjoined with that of Astaroth or Venus, there is rulership, for the northern and eastern faces of the Cube of Space are connected by the line north-east, which is attributed to Heh, the Emperor. This is the creative word (1st Heh of IHVH) in manifestation (2nd Heh of IHVH), which expressed by merits the title 'strong", for the aim of the Emperor's vision has the interior power expressed by "the city".

---

### [ha'ayir](keys/HOIR) - העיר
the city. see [686](686).

- [Genesis 11:5](http://biblehub.com/genesis/11-5.htm): *"And the LORD came down to see **the city** and the tower, which the children of men builded."*
- [Genesis 19:15](http://biblehub.com/genesis/19-15.htm): *"And when the morning arose, then the angels hastened Lot, saying, Arise, take thy wife, and thy two daughters, which are here; lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of **the city**."*
- [Deuteronomy 13:16](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/13-16.htm): *"And thou shalt gather all the spoil of it into the midst of the street thereof, and shalt burn with fire **the city**, and all the spoil thereof every whit, for the LORD thy God: and it shall be an heap for ever; it shall not be built again"*


---

### See Also:

- [15](15)
- [6](6)
- [Bible Wheel: 285](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=285)

