## 287 - Two Hundred Eighty-Seven
> (7x41)

### [Ophir](/keys/AVPR) - 
> "Fine Gold." The place where Solomon got his gold for
the temple. Variant selling. It is AVR, with the letter of Mars.
see 291, 1210, 207, 297, 302.

### [zoar](/keys/ZOIR) - 
> little, small. The city into which Lot escaped at the
destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah [Genesis 19:23]. "The sun was
risen upon the earth when Lot entered Zoar." The passage which
refers to Lot's escape specifically mentions fire and brimstone
[A name for alchemical sulfur], while Lot's wife is turned in a
pillar of salt. see 693, 78, 104, 315, 354. One of the 5 cities
in the vale of Siddim, also called Bela. see 354.

### [Muriel](/keys/MVRIAL) - 
> Geomantic Intelligence of Cancer. From the Greek
"Myrrh"; Angel of the month of June and ruler of the sign of
Cancer. One of the rulers of the Order of Dominations, invoked
from the south. One of the chief angelic officers of the 3rd hour
of the day. [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.199] Godwin gives:
Archangel of Cancer.

### [Chokmah Ruach](/keys/ChKMH.RVCh) - 
> Spirit of Wisdom. The life-breath or
spirit is concentrated as the life-force in Chokmah. It becomes
"gold" as it descends through the Tree of Life. see 73, 214.

### [vuphar](/keys/VPAR) - 
> Night demon of 3rd decanate of Taurus. This decanate
is ruled by Saturn and suggest subconsciousness imbalance,
resulting in lack of perseverance. The letters of the demon's
name suggest the power of intuition (Vav), misdirected in acts of
self-expression (Peh), using the undisciplined power of spirit
(Aleph) to pervert the solar regenerative force (Resh). The 3rd
decanate of Taurus in the Tarot minor arcana is assigned to the 7
of Pentacles. This represents the operation of Netzach, sphere of
Venus, in Assiah, the material world of action. When illaspected,
as here, the influence of the demon can indicate
something promising which turns out badly; loss in speculation
and unprofitable employment; financial restriction, unrealized
hopes and wishes. The remedy is through rightly applied desires
based on first-hand knowledge that the possibilities in man and
his ability to transmute his environment are inexhaustible.

### [Jobab ben Zerah](/keys/IVBB.BN.ZRCh) - 
> Jobab, son of Zerah; A king of
Edom, according to Godwin, associated with Chesed. Recall that
Edom signifies unbalanced force. see 51, 937. Mentioned in
[Genesis 36:33] "And Bela died, and Jobab, the son of Zerah of
Bozrah reigned in his stead." Zerah means to irradiate, to rise
(as the sun), shine. According to Inman, the name Jobab seems to
be a variant of another word meaning cherished, beloved.

aephiqoman, cont. so given by Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.143]
he cites the Zohar.

## Greek/Latin:

### [Igne Natura Renovatur Intergra](latin?word=Igne+Natura+Renovatur+Intergra) (Lt)
"Through fire, Nature is reborn whole."

### See Also:

- [17](17)
- [8](8)
