## 289 - Two Hundred Eighty-Nine
> (17x17)

---

### [payrate](/keys/PRT) - פרט
> to detail, specify, to distinguish, to particularize.

---

### [perawt](/keys/PRT) - פרט
> single thing, detail, explicit, statement, individual.

---

### [pawrat](/keys/PRT) - פרט
> to play a musical instrument, to do one by one, do singly, to change into small money, to detail, single out, specify.

---

### [peret](/keys/PRT) - פרט
> Single grapes; grape gleanings which belong to the poor.

---

### [pawtar](/keys/PTR) - פטר
> to break through, to liberate, to open; break open; to set free; release; dismiss; to escape; to cause exemption; to divorce. Both words (payrate and pawtar), designates the quality of activity represented by the pentagram, as well as the actual purpose of the pentagram ritual, which seeks to bring about a particular manifestation of the Life-power's energy, and comprehends that energy as working in a five-fold manner.

---

### [pehter](/keys/PTR) - פטר
> opening, firstling, first born.

---

### [bawrah Elohim](/keys/BRA.ALHIM) - ברא אלהים
> "God [Elohim] created" [Genesis 1:1](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-1.htm): *"In the beginning the Elohim created the heavens and the earth."*

---

### [tawraph](/keys/TRP) - טרף
> to tear to pieces, rend; to declare unfit for food; to seize forcibly; to knock, strike, shake; to mix, confuse; to ?haggle?, comb.

---

### [raphat](/keys/RPT) - רפט
> particular; part, particle. see "three measures of meal", #[889](889).

> Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.647] gives: particulare, and says this name evidently pertains to Malkuth; however others attributed it to Kether, said generally and universally: Tiphareth specially and particularly, and to Malkuth in general. Moreover, the sense is that in the crown in general are contained mildness, and mercy; specially exhibited in Chesed, Geburah, and Tiphareth, and generally repeated in Malkuth.

---

### [Ahira](/keys/AChIRO) - אחירע
> "Brother of wrong". A prince of Naphtali [Numbers 1:15](http://biblehub.com/numbers/1-15.htm): *"of Naphtali; Ahira the son of Enan".* Naphtali is connected with Virgo and with alchemical distillation. see [570](570).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Granum pectori Jesu insitum](/latin?word=Granum+pectori+Jesu+insitum) (Lt)
> Seed planted in Jesus' breast.

Or, seed planted in the breast *by* Jesus

---

### See Also:

- [19](19)
- [10](10)
- [1](1)
