## 290 - Two Hundred Ninety
> (2x5x19)

---

### [Miriam](/keys/MRIM) - מרים
> Mary, sister of Moses. Signifying rebellion, perversity, antagonism. These are states having close association with strong but unfulfilled desires. Christian tradition gives the virgin (Latin: Maria, seas), who is also the holy mother (Binah, the Great Sea) the same name as the Magdalene who was forgiven because she lמריoved much. see [7](7), [140](140).

> *"Now, the name מרים  is מרי, with the termination of Mem. Thus it really signifies 'Bitter Water.'"* [Case on D.D. Bryant]. see [250](250), [440](440), [245](245), [441](441).

---

### [tzor](/keys/TzR) - צר
> Tyre, Rock. Name of Tyre, city of Phoenicia. [Ezekiel 26:4](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/26-4.htm): *"They will destroy the walls of Tyre, and pull down her towers; I will scrape away her rubble and make her bare rock."*

> This word is spelled TzVR in [Deuteronomy 32:4](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/.htm): *"...your are to pass through the coast of your brethren.. which dwell in Seir.."* God and the adversary are one and the same. see [Key 15](15), #[258](258), [624](624), [296](296).

---

### [peri](/keys/PRI) - פרי
> fruit; offspring; product, result; profit, interest. [Genesis 1:11](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-11.htm): *"And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is in itself, upon the earth: and it was so.
"*

---

### [Amud awnan](/keys/OMVD.ONN) - עמוד ענן
> "A pillar of cloud".

> [Exodus 13:21](http://biblehub.com/exodus/13-21.htm) *"And the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of cloud, to lead them the way; and by night in a pillar of fire, to give them light; to go by day and night."*

> [Numbers 12:5](http://biblehub.com/numbers/12-5.htm) *"And the Lord came in the pillar of the cloud, and stood in the door of the tabernacle, and called Aaron and Miriam: and they both came forth."* [The Beth prefixed to עמוד is omitted. With the Beth, "in", the value is [292](292)] see [2528](2528), [2580](2580) (Greek); [421](421), [120](120), [170](170).

---

### [raymim](/keys/RMIM) - רמים
> "wild-oxen" - unicorn (plural) "one-horned" refers to spiritual illumination-the Mercury center of 3rd eye. see [1286](1286), [696](696).

---

### [mimar](/keys/MIMR) - מימר
> Word, equivalent to (Logos) in later Hebrew. Thus, "word of God". see [511](511).

---

### [ayrek](/keys/ORK) - ערך
> Order, row; proportion; estimate, valuation; value, price; degree (gram.) also: ערך awrak, to arrange, set in order to compare; to be comparable, be equal; to roll; shape (dough); knead; to edit. [Note Paul Case gave for this "thine enemy".]

---

### [raman](/keys/RMN) - רמן
> pomegranate. Symbol of feminine fruitfulness and of memory. see [Key 2](2).

---

### [agaruph](/keys/AGRVP) - אגרוף
> "with the first". (Beth left out). The first-fruits of evolution are human souls, raised to the consciousness of the 5th kingdom.

---

### [ratz](/keys/RTz) - רץ
> piece. Connected with silver and the Moon in [Psalm 68:30](http://biblehub.com/psalms/68-30.htm): *"Rebuke the wild beasts (oppressors) of the marshes, the multitude of the wild bulls, the idols of the gentiles which are covered with silver [i.e. pieces of silver]; scatter the people who delight in war."* see [1100](1100).

---

### See Also:

- [29](29)
- [11](11)
- [2](2)
