## 291 - Two Hundred Ninety-One
> (3x97)

---

### [Aphiqi mayim](/keys/APIQI.MIM) - אפיקי מים
> "torrents of waters". Compare with the idea of Water as the substance of all physical forms. (Latin: Torrentes Aquarum). So listed by Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.143], who says they are Netzach, and Hod, and so-called since both together receive the supernal waters from Binah, through Tiphareth. When therefore they reside above Yesod, then they the torrents of waters, when their influence descends into Yesod. see [851](851).

---

### [Ophir](/keys/APIR) - אפיר
> The place where Solomon got much of his gold [1 Kings 10:11](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/1-11.htm). Intimates that the field of concentration in which growth takes place is the alchemical gold, or transmuting agency. In the alchemical treatise, Aesch Mezareph, Ophir is referred to Malkuth, because Ophir is the name of a land or Earth derived from a Hebrew noun signifying ashes (Ayper, APR-also: dry and loose earth; soil, dust, powder, debris). see [287](287), [297](297), [311](311).

---

### [awtzar](/keys/ATzR) - אצר
> to lay up, store up, to store treasure.

---

### [aytzer](/keys/ATzR) - אצר
> to treasure, preserve. refers to the wound-up kundalini energy (Saturn) as our treasure. The greater concentration of force which brings up more problems is truly our greatest treasure. Also a personal masculine name used in [Genesis 36:21]. Ezer, "A leader or prince", also "stay, strength, help", "dominion, rule".

---

### [eretz](/keys/ARTz) - ארץ
> earth. One of the 4 elements; attributed to the letter Tav. The temporary fixation of Fire, Air and Water. One of the 7 earths corresponding to the Supernals. From a root meaning: "low, inferior." Stands for the inferior term of the first opposites, that which is below. see 390, 800. It is essentially Life (Aleph). It is manifest in the dynamic energy of suns and stars (Resh). Alchemical earth is the root of human existence-giving the Aquarian age impulse to unfold the higher powers of man (Tzaddi).

> This alchemical earth is attributed to the supernal triad and especially to Chokmah ["And the earth was without form and void". I conclude that the mosnacal earth was the virgin sulphur, which is an earth without form, for it hath no determined form". - Thomas Vaughan]. It is also linked to Malkuth, the end of the path of Tav (Saturn). At the beginning of the Christian era, a person we now describe as belonging to the "lower Classes" was called by the Jews: Am ha-eretz, "Man of Earth." Thus Earth stands for "that which is below." ארץ, though particularly attributed to Malkuth, is also, in the system of the 7 palaces, attributed to the supernal triad, and more especially to חכמה, where it is associated with אופנים, [Ophanim](/keys/AVPNIM) (Wheels), and with חיה, the Life-force. It is, possibly, to this aspect of ארץ that Vaughan refers in his address to the reader in Magia Adamica when he says (page 84), that the earth is invisible. Note that ארץ is 291, or 3x97, which is also 3 times הים גדול, "[the Great Sea](/keys/HIM.HGDL)." But the Great Sea is Binah, is also the number 3. Thus הים גדול maybe symbolized in a double blind as 3x3 = 9 (יסוד). Note Vaughan's quotation from Hermes: "O Holy Earth, that thou are ordained to be the Mother of All." For mother is אימא. see [50](50), [14](14), [365](365), [105](105), [302](302), [432](432), [337](337).

> Tarot Keys which represent the element earth: [Key 21](21), The World "Joyous freedom" (Saturn) "the palace of holiness in the midst" -- making the element of earth visible is the greatest secret of magic; [Key 5](5), The Hierophant (Taurus) Liberation -- the inner mystery of alchemical earth is sound vibration; [Key 9](9) The Hermit (Virgo) -- Mercury; [Key 15](15) The Devil (Capricorn) -- Mars exalted -- the ass -- first matter -- "the great magical agent". In the Christian nativity, these are esoteric signs of liberation: the virgin (Virgo) sits in a stable between an ox (Taurus) and an ass (Capricorn), holding the Christ-child. The combined activities of these three results in the manifestation of the liberation power of that which was, is and will be. When vision is at the center we can direct the fiery mars-force and integrate it in the element earth -- a great secret. All the hierophant's instruction has to do with the integration of invisible spiritual energy into visible physical forms. The invisible, magical earth is really the living conscious energy which is shaped metaphysically by our acts of creative imagination (Moon in Taurus). The great work, as so far as it has to do with the magical earth, is really a sort of remembering, or recollection [knowledge of the laws of nature is always derived from the akashic record, the scroll of the high priestess -- the moon]...

> Five centers are specially concerned with the magical earth. The manifestation of the life-power through them is what enables us to control the forms which are assumed by the invisible earth here in the visible world of the physical plane. They are [Saturn](/keys/Th) ([Key 21](21)), [Mars](/keys/P) ([Key 16](16)), [Venus](/keys/D) ([Key 3](3)), [The Moon](/keys/G) ([Key 2](2)), and [Mercury](/keys/B) ([Key 1](1)). Since the total of the numbers of these keys is [43](43), which reduces to 7, we know that the forces represented by these keys are related to the symbolism of [The Chariot](/keys/Ch) ([Key 7](7)). Note that 7 itself is related to Saturn through the connection of this number with the idea of rest and the 7th day of the week, which is Saturn's day, the Sabbath. Cheth means a fence or hedge, thus intimating the limiting power of Saturn.

---

### [derek binah](/keys/DRK.BINH) - דרך בינה
> *."the way of understanding"*. [Proverbs 9:6](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/9-6.htm). Through trials and problems, and depending on the intensity of the field of expression one has developed, is the way to greater understanding and even higher levels of perception. Since this refers by gematria to the element Earth, it may be compared with the words of Paul, an initiate in the secret wisdom: *"Ever since the creation of the world, his invisible nature... his eternal power and divine character... have been clearly perceptible through what he has made."* [Romans 1:20](http://biblehub.com/romans/1-20.htm)

---

### [Har-Elohim](/keys/HR.ALHIM) - הר אלהים
> Hill (or mountain) of God (Elohim) [Psalm 68:15](http://biblehub.com/psalms/68-15.htm). *"The Mountain [hill] of God (Elohim) is the Mountain [hill] of Bashan (HR-BShN)."* Bashan means "soft, rich soil" see [848](848), [352](352), [126](126), [201](201), [713](713), [406](406), [400](400), [581](581), [451](451).

---

### [harreppu](/keys/HRPV) - הרפו
> be still. [Psalm 46:10](http://biblehub.com/psalms/46-10.htm) *"Be still and know that I am god: I will be exalted among the heathen, I will be exalted in the earth."* God is revealed when the 'waters" are still. see [1407](1407) (Greek).

---

### [zera David](/keys/ZRO.DVD) - זרע דוד
> seed (posterity) of [David](/keys/DVD). Notice that דוד is [14](14), and is equivalent to זהב, [Zahab](/keys/ZHB), Gold. Here is an alchemical hint.

---

### [zareo-bo](/keys/ZROV.BV) - זרעו בו
> Whose seed is in itself [Genesis 1:11](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-11.htm). The Zohar says: *"Instead of Zareo ("whose seed"), we may read זרע-ו, [zera Vav](/keys/ZRO-V), "the seed of Vav', which has literally been cast upon the Earth."* the "seed of Vav" is the seed-power of Tiphareth, which is represented in יהוה by the 3rd letter Vav. Tiphareth is Sol or Gold.

---

### [Memrah](/keys/MIMRA) - מימרא
> Word, Logos, thought. Used by Onkelos for יהוה throughout his Aramaic translation of the Pentateuch. Also: Word, of God, Command.

---

### [nimra](/keys/NMRA) - נמרא
> a leopard ("Spotted, striped") [Aesch Mezareph p.25] *"The third beast [the lion and eagle are the other two] ... which is as it were a leopard i.e. water not wetting, the garden of the wise men; for nimra a leopard and Jardin in their lesser number, make the same sum, viz. 12. Such also is the quickness of this water, that is not unlike a leopard on that account."* This beast is said to have 4 wings (i.e. sublimations) to fight with the bear and lion that he may extract their gluten or blood, and 4 compositions-white, red, green and watery. Nimra was a place in Gilead ("the sun; the witness").

---

### [sirka](/keys/SIRKA) - סירכא
> to adhere to, to cleave to; prince, chief, general, ruler. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.604] gives: adhaesio, adhaerens, princeps. He says thus is called the Qlippah, when it adheres to shekinah from the judgements exposed by the sins of the Israelites. Then she becomes the ruler. He cites [Proverbs 30:23](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/30-23.htm) *"An unloved woman who is married, and a maid-servant who displaces her mistress."*

---

### [Tzakamquiel](/keys/TzKMQIAL) - צכמקיאל
> Lesser assistant angel of Aquarius [Crowley].

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
