## 294 - Two Hundred Ninety-Four
> (2x3x7x7)

### [Melchizedek](/keys/MLKITzDQ) - מלכיצדק
> [Malchi-Zedek](/keys/MLKI.TzDQ), Old Testament priest king of Salem, [Genesis 14:18](http://biblehub.com/genesis/14-18.htm). He brought the bread and wine to Abraham and blessed him. Melchizedek means "King of Righteousness" and refers to the Chasidim, the Masters of Compassion, the true "Measures of Mercy." The head of the essene order was a "Teacher of Righteousness." See the path of Yod on the Tree connecting the King, or Melek (Tiphareth) with righteousness (Gedulah or Chesed).

> The King of Salem (peace) is spoken of in the Epistle to the Hebrews as being *"without father, without mother, without descent and without beginning or end of days."* The priesthood of Melchizedek (after the order of Melchizedek) is not an outer order, like the masons. It is identical with the True and Invisible Order.

> The interior church or _Eckharts-Hausen_ is another name for the same company of men and women who are liberated from the illusion of physical descent, who know they never began to live, and that their lives will never end, who are, in short, free from the delusion of mortal, temporal existence. These men and women relate themselves neither to the past not to the future. They live out the present, the now with smiling hearts. Thus is it true that the course of empire takes its way westward, but the west to which it leads is the mystic west corresponding to צדק, [Jupiter](/keys/TzDQ), the planet or center, or western face of he cube. see [100](100), [312](312), [314](314), [194](194), [246](246), [636](636), [746](746) (Greek), [919](919) (Greek), [2020](2020), [1494](1494), [1345](1345), [4896](4896).

### [ha-maor ha-gadhol](/keys/HMAVR.HGDL) - המאור הגדל
> "the greater light (luminary)" (to rule the day). [Genesis 1:16](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-16.htm).

### [Elohi Abraham](/keys/ALHI.ABRHM) - אלהי אברהם
> the God of Abraham. [Exodus 3:6](http://biblehub.com/exodus/3-6.htm). Note that Abraham in the Bible is directly connected with Melchizedek. see [248](248), [254](254), [228](228), [854](854), [782](782), [1199](1199), [1342](1342).

### [areggaman](/keys/ARGMN) - ארגמן
> purple, purple cloth. A "royal" color, connected with Jupiter and the Moon. Red purple is connected with Pentecost, symbolizing the giving of the written law, consisting of 2 sides, of the right and of the left. [Zohar III:135A]

>  D.D. Bryant says that purple was a mixture of blue (Chesed) and red (Geburah) and that it figured prominently in the building of the tabernacle, and the covering of Solomon's chariot [Song of Solomon]. *"A reddish-purple color like that of the traditional Venusian rose."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p.233]

### [chavraph](/keys/ChVRP) - חורף
> pertaining to autumn.

### [tzarad](/keys/TzRD) - צרד
> to be cool, fresh, (unused root).

### [Nimrod](/keys/NMRD) - נמרד
> Founder of Babylon. The eternal mother; the womb of time". [Inman II, p.385] *"Celebrated in Masonic tradition as one of the founders of the craft"* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p.233]

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"נמרד, Nimerod... The verb מרוד, of which this is here the contined faculative, passive movement, signifies literally to give over to one's impulse, to shake off every kind of yoke, to behave arbitrarily. It is formed from the root RD, which develops every idea of movement, proper and perseverign, good and evil, ruled by the sign of exterior acton Mem."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.280-281]

> The Zohar [I:73B-74A] comments: *"He was a mighty hunter before the Lord; wherefore it is said: like Nimrod a mighty hunter before the Lord. Truly he was a man of might, because he was clad in the garments of Adam, and was able by means of them, to lay snares for mankind and beguile them. Rabbi Eleazar said: 'Nimrod used to entice people into idolatrous worship by means of those garments, which enabled him to conquer the world and proclaim himself its ruler, so that mankind offered him worship. He was called 'Nimrod', for the reason that he rebelled (marad = rebel) against the most high king above, against the higher angels and against the lower angels.' Rabbi Simeon said: 'Our colleagues are acquainted with a profound mystery concerning these garments.'"* (p.251)

### [ratzad](/keys/RTzD) - רצד
> to totter, to tremble, (unused root).

## Greek/Latin:

### [agiois](/greek?word=agiois) (Gr) - αγιοις
> saints.

### [heh kale parathekeh](/greek?word=h+kalh+parathhkh) (Gr) - η καλὴ παραθήκη
> "The good deposit" [2 Timothy 1:14](http://biblehub.com/2_timothy/1-14.htm): *"That good thing (deposit) which was committed unto thee by the holy ghost which dwelleth in us."*

### [omologia](/greek?word=omologia) (Gr) - ομολογια
> profession, confession [Case]. also: agreement, compact; in war, terms of surrender; an assent, admission.

### [othone megaleh](/greek?word=othonh+megalh) (Gr) - οθονη μεγαλη
> a great sheet; fine white linen, a fine linen veil, a garment or cloth, a sail-cloth, sail, sheet.

### [Ekklesia](/greek?word=ekklhsia) (Gr) - Εκκλησια
> Church. Literally, "They who are called out." An assembly brought together for oral instruction. (The congregation of the righteous, the merciful, the true chasidim, the only true church, the inner church or school, the true Rosicrucian order, the "White Lodge," composed of the "Master of Compassion," said to be Triumphant over death and the grave). see [53](53) Latin.

### [rhodon](/greek?word=rodon) (Gr) - ροδον
> Rose. The flower sacred to Venus, used to designate the interior church of persons who hear and obey the inner voice.

### [He skene](/greek?word=h+skhnh) (Gr) - η σκηνη
> the tabernacle. Used in Greek version of the Old Testament.

### See Also:

- [15](15)
- [6](6)