## 300 - Three Hundred
3x4x5x5. Σ24=300. The 24 thrones of the elders. [Revelation 4:4](http://biblehub.com/revelation/4-4.htm)

---

### [Shin](/keys/Sh) - ש
> Refers to cosmic fire (prana).

> *"The form of the letter Shin reminds one of a mouth full of teeth. Unlike the letter Peh which is turned to eat whatever it finds on its level, the Shin is turned upwards to receive nourishment from on high. It is thus the higher octave if what is represented by Peh."* [The Idiot Speaks, Caleb Folis]

> *"He caused the letter Shin to reign in fire."* [[Sephir Yetzirah](http://www.sacred-texts.com/jud/yetzirah.htm)]

> *"According to the Zohar, the letter Shin is called "the letter of truth." The three branches represent the three aspects of the truth about man: (1) he possesses a spiritual soul (Neshamah), (2) a spirit (Rauch), and (3) bodily soul (Nefesh)."* [Letters of Fire, Rabbi Glazerson]. see [360](360), [814](814), [24](24).

> Paul Case observes: *"The character of shin is composed of three Yods and a Vav, which is the base of the letter. The total value of the three yods is 30, and the Vav is 6. Hence the secret value of the character is 36. this number is the sum of the digits from 0 to 8, or the theosophic extension of 8. Note that 8 is the letter Cheth, and compare [in the Book of Tokens] paragraphs, ??? and 14 of the meditation on Cheth with key 20, which depicts the liberation there spoken of. The Egyptian hieroglyphic for the sound 'sh" was xxx representing an inundated garden. This is interesting when compared with the symbolism of Key 20, where the idea of undulation is observed in the symbolism."* [Tarot Practice Course]

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"This character as consonant belongs to the sibilant sound, and depicts in an onomatopoetic manner, light movements, sounds durable and soft. As symbolic image it represents the part of the bow from which the arrow is shot. In Hebrew, it is the sign of relative duration and of the movement attached thereunto. It is derived from the vocal sound Yod, become consonant by joining to its expression the respective significations of the consonants Zain and Samekh. As prepositive relation, it constitutes a sort of pronominal article and is placed at the head of nouns and verbs, to communicate to them the double power that it possesses of movement and of conjunction."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.455-456](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/454)]

---

### [Ruach Elohim](/keys/RVCh.ALHIM) - רוח אלהים
> the Life-Breath of the Gods (Creative powers). The breath of the Mighty Ones, the Spirit of God. Holy Spirit [Genesis 1:3](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-3.htm). May be understood as "Life-breath has seven aspects, it motion (in and out = 2) is 2x7 or [14](14). see [360](360), [86](86).

Much as a baloon takes shape when inflated with air, so does matter take shape when "inflated" with the breath of life. And just as the air inside a balloon is particular to that balloon while also being continuous with the surrounding air, so does רוח אלהים exist simultaneously as the particularized expression of a single form while at the same time being continuous with the light-power permeating the entire universe. Imagine the bud of a flower "inflated" by the רוח אלהים into its full bloom, and afterwards it "deflates" into the primordial chaos from which it emerged. Such is the breath of life.

---

### [yetzer](/keys/ITzR) - יצר
> formation, to form, to mold; create, concept. Shin is the "fire of Formation" by which atonement, or union with God is made. Root of יצירה, [Yetzirah](/keys/ITzIRH), World of formation.

---

### [yatser](/keys/ITzR) - יצר
> conception, formation, imagination, device, purpose, form, framing, pottery; idol; impulse, inclination, desire. יאר, [yar](/keys/IAR), to be predestined, preordained. see [315](315).

---

### [tzeri](/keys/TzRI) - צרי
> balsam, balm. Metathesis of יצר. [The Zohar IV5B, pp. 109-110] states: *"It is written: 'Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and marked out the heavens with the span, and comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure; and weighed the mountains in scales, and the hills in a balance?"* [Isaiah 40:12](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/40-12.htm) ... heavens symbolizes 'beauty' (Tiphareth) and 'dust' refers to 'power' (Geburah). 'Mountain refers to [text stops]

---

### [kappar, kafer](/keys/KPR) - כפר
> atonement (at-one-ment), expiate. Literally, "to cover, to condone, to placate, to cancel. Also: to atone, procure forgiveness, pacify, propitiate. As a verb to be atoned for, be forgiven, to be made void. see numbers that reduce to 3: [3](3), [12](12), [21](21), [30](30), [39](39), [48](48), [57](57), [66](66), [75](75), [84](84), [93](93), [102](102), [111](111), [120](120), [138](138).

---

### [pirawad](/keys/PIRVD) - פירוד
> separation. Shin is said to appear as a flame of separation [Book of Tokens].

---

### [bayburekaw](/keys/BOBVRK) - בעבורך
> "for thy sake" [Genesis 3:17](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-17.htm) [because-of-you, Interlinear Bible]. *"To Adam he said, Because you listened to your wife and ate of the tree abut which I commanded you, You must not eat of it, Cursed is the ground **because of you;** through toil you will eat of it all the days of your life."* This was done so that the evolution (of fire) may take place.

---

### [maymaqim](/keys/MOMQIM) - מעמקים
> depths. [Psalm 130:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/130-1.htm): *"Out of the depths I cry to you O Lord..."* (ממעמקים, from depths, Interlinear Bible) The fire of the father is hid within the depths of the waters of the mother (Binah). see [840](840).

---

### [aur bephiah](/keys/AVR.BPAHH) - אור בפאהה
> light in extension (Khabs am Pekht).

---

### [awrel](/keys/ORL) - ערל
> uncircumcised; unpruned.

---

### [Nimrod](/keys/NMRVD) - נמרוד
> Alternate spelling.

---

### [matzpatz](/keys/MTzPTz) - מצפץ
> God of Chesed, of Hod and of Briah. A [Temurah](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temurah_(Kabbalah)) permutation of IHVH. see [1399](1399), "two great lights"

---

### [raq](/keys/RQ) - רק
> Only, but, nothing but, save, except.

> [2 Chronicles 5:10](http://biblehub.com/2_chronicles/5-10.htm) *"There was nothing in the ark except the two tablets that Moses had placed in it at Horeb, where the Lord made a covenant with the Israelites after they came out of Egypt."* 

> Also: thin, lean [Genesis 41:20](http://biblehub.com/genesis/41-20.htm) In Joseph's dream: *"After them, seven other cows came up-scrawny and very ugly and lean. I had never seen such ugly cows in all the land of Egypt."*

> Also: רק, [roq](/keys/RQ). saliva.

> [Isaiah 50:6](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/50-6.htm) *"I offered my back to those who beat me, my cheeks to those who pulled by beard; I did not hide my face from mocking and spitting."*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"רק. Every idea of tenuity, rarity, expansion, giving way... that which is attenuated, rarified; which gives way, physically as well as morally: in a figurative sense, time."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.454](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/454)]

---

### [Aleph Lamed Heh Yod Mem](/keys/ALP.LMD.HI.IVD.MM) - אלף למד הי יוד מם
> Elohim, אלהים, spelled in full; i.e. the creative powers of God. see [86](86).

See also [Aleph Lamed Heh Yod Mem](/keys/ALP.LMD.HH.IVD.MM)

---

### [Jehovah tzaddik yibhan](/keys/IHVH.TzDIQ.IBChN) - יהוה צדיק יבחן
> The Lord tests the righteous. [Psalm 11:5](http://biblehub.com/psalms/11-5.htm) *"The Lord tests the righteous and the wicked, and the one who loves violence His soul hates."*

> The Zohar [II:140A, p.48] Has this comment: *For what reason? Said Rabbi Simeon: "Because when God finds delight in the righteous, he brings upon them suffering, as it is written: "Yet it pleased the Lord to crush him by disease" [Isaiah 53:10](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/53-10.htm) ...God finds delight in the soul, but not in the body, as the soul resembles the supernal soul, whereas the body is not worthy to be allied to the supernal essences, although the image of the body is part of the supernal symbolism. Observe that when God takes delight in the soul of a man, he afflicts the body in order that the soul may gain freedom. For so long as the soul is together with the body, it cannot exercise its full powers, but only when the body is broken and crushed again, 'He trieth the righteous,' so as to make them firm like 'a tilled stone,' the 'costly corner-stone' mentioned by the prophet [Isaiah 28:16](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/28-16.htm)."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [heh oikodome](/greek?word=oikodemehma) (Gr) - οἰκοδομή
> the building. Written οἰκοδομάς in plural, in [Mark 13:2](http://biblehub.com/mark/13-2.htm) (1) *"And as he was going out of the temple, one of his disciples says to him, 'teacher, see; what stones! and what buildings!'" (2) "And Jesus said to him, 'do you see these great buildings? There shall not be left-here a stone upon a stone; all will be overthrown."*

> Written οἰκοδομή in [1 Corinthians 3:9](http://biblehub.com/1_corinthians/3-9.htm) *"For we are God's co-workers; you are God's field; you are God's building."* see [370](370), [111](111), [518](518) (Greek).

---

### [consensus omnium sanctorum](/latin?word=consensus+omnium+sanctorum) (Lt)
"Consensus among all saints."

---

### See Also

- [3](3)
- [30](30)