## 301 - Three Hundred One
> (7x43)

---

### [esh](/keys/ASh) - אש
> fire.

---

### [Ish](/keys/ASh) - אש
> entity. existence, being, man, "there is". [2 Samuel 14:19](http://biblehub.com/2_samuel/14-19.htm); [Micah 6:10](http://biblehub.com/micah/6-10.htm). The secret alchemical fire is the entity with all things, and the foundation of all life and form. Aleph is the Life-breath or Spirit and Shin corresponds to the element fire and has the same numerical value as the "Life-breath of the Creative Powers." Both Aleph and Shin are mother letters. see [53](53), [44](44), [444](444), [256](256), [471](471), [360](360), [300](300).

> According to Fabre D'Olivet:

> > *"אש. This root, as the preceding one, is symbol of the elementary principle whatever it may be. It is the root אר, what the circular line is to the straight line. The signs which constitute it are those of power and of relative movement. In a very broad sense it is every active principle, every center unfolding a circumference, every relative force. In a more restricted sense it is fire considered in the absence of every substance.*

> > *"אש the Hebraic genius confounds this root with the root אם, and considers in it all which is of the basis and foundation of things; that which is hidden in its principle; that which is absolute, strong, unalterable, as the appearance of fire. The Arabic [word] designates that which moves with agility, vehemence. This idea ensues necessarily from that attached to the mobility of fire, אש."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.299](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/n319/mode/2up)
]

---

### [Osh](/keys/ASh) - אש
> foundation (Aramaic).

---

### [Adonai ha-melek ne-amen](/keys/ADNI.HMLK.NAMN) - אדני המלך נאמן
> "Adonai, the faithful king". The divine name representing God as the master power, ruling over all things from his holy habitation in the center.

---

### [ha-tzoor](/keys/HTzVR) - הצור
> the rock (a divine name). The English of [Deuteronomy 32:4](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/32-4.htm) prints this with a capital "R" to show that it is a divine name. This is the rock "that begat thee". see [360](360). The inner meaning is that the life of the personal man is essentially one with the prototypical life of the Cosmic Self. The inner man is begotten, not made, being of one substance with the father, by whom all things were made. He shares in the divine nature whence he proceeds.

---

### [menorah](/keys/MNVRH) - מנורה
> a candlestick. Specifically the golden candlestick described in [Exodus 25:31-39](http://biblehub.com/niv/exodus/25.htm). It was a symbol of the 7 heavenly bodies and the 7 interior stars or chakras.

---

### [tzedeq yahin bah](/keys/TzDQ.ILIN.BH) - צדק ילין בה
> justice abides in her [Isaiah 1:21](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/1-21.htm). The authorized version reads: "Righteous lodged in it." Has a recondite meaning, explained in I.Z.Q. But note: the explanation is itself a veil it depends on one occult understanding of ציון [Zion](/keys/TzIVN) ([156](156)), ירושלם [Jerusalem](/keys/IRVShLM) ([586](586)), and of דביר [Debir](/keys/DBIR) ([216](216)). see [961](961), [1779](1779) (Greek), [I.Z.Q. 541]

---

### [tzurah](/keys/TzVRH) - צורה
> A rock, appearance, creature, picture, form or shape (of a temple or house, as used in [Ezekiel 43:11](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/43-11.htm)). A technical term in Qabalah, designating the prototypical spiritual Self. In a sense what is meant by צורה is higher even than Yekhidah, the Self seated in Kether. It is the Self-hood of אין [Ain](/keys/AIN), the no-thing, persisting throughout all successive cycles of manifestation and withdrawal. see [696](696), [492](492).

---

### [qarah](/keys/QRA) - קרא
> to call, summon, proclaim, announce, to call upon, invoke; to convoke, assemble, invite, to call by name; to read aloud; recite; to meet; to happen; befall; to read the scriptures. As a noun: Biblical scholar, Bible teacher. [Genesis 1:10](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-10.htm): "He called seas." see [464](464), [360](360), [300](300).

---

### [Hermon](/keys/HRMVN) - הרמון
> Mountain in Palestine; "the prominent on", from הרם "to be high or prominent" (Inman). Also "sacred mountain". On is connected with the Sun ("the most high God"). It was viewed from ancient times as a sacred locality, with numerous shrines. see [343](343), [345](345).

---

### [shah](/keys/ShA) - שא
> to drive, to push away; to lift up. Metathesis of אש and concealed in the Hebrew name Saul [Case on D.D. Bryant]. see [331](331). Godwin gives: Sho, destruction.

> Fabre D'Olivet comments on the root: *"שא. The sign of relative movement united to that of power, constitutes a root which is heiroglypically characterized by the arc of a circle inscribed between two radii. The character Samekh is designated by the arc deprived of its radius or arrow, and closed by its cord. The character Zain is designated by the radius or arrow indicating the circumference. The portion of the circle represented by the root שא, can be considered in movement or in repose; thence, the opposed ideas of tumult and of the calm which it develops."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.456](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/456/mode/2up)]

---

### [galeh razin](/keys/GLA.RZIN) - גלא רזין
Who reveals mysteries. [Daniel 2:27-28](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=daniel%202%3A27-28&version=WEB;OJB): *"No wise men, enchanters, magicians, or astrologers can show to the king the mystery that the king has asked, but there is a God in heaven **who reveals mysteries**"*

---

## Greek

---

### [Kranion](/greek?word=kranion) (Gr) - Κρανίον
> Skull [Luke 23:33](http://biblehub.com/luke/23-33.htm): *"To that place called 'skull,' there they crucified him."*

---

### [Selene](/greek?word=selhnh) (Gr) - σελήνη
> the moon, a lunar month.

---

### See Also:

- [31](31)
- [4](4)