## 306 - Three Hundred Six
2x3x3x17. (6x51).

### [eshah](/keys/AShH) - אשה
> fire (feminine), woman. It suggest that fire is the womb of manifestation from which all things are brought forth. *[The Gematria Notebooks of Paul Foster Case]*

> 1. Find Fabre D'Olivet comments on the root ASh. *This root... is symbol of the elementary principle whatever it may be. It is to the root AR, what the circular line is to the straight line. The signs which constitute it are those of power and of relative movement. In a broad sense it is every active principle, every center unfolding a circumference, every relative force. In a more restricted sense it is fire considered in the absence of every substance." [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 299]* see [301](301).

> 2. Carlo Suares writes: *"The name of this woman.. Esha, is the feminine element of cosmic fire, inasmuch as she springs from Esh (ASh) fire. Notice the spelling of eesh for man: ?(AIA)?. Adam discovers this, his new name. (The addition of Yod to the name of fire indicates that this 'fire' comes into existence in man). A remarkable feature of this ideograms is that Esha does not really exist although she is alive (she has no Yod but has the Heh of Life). This fire, Esh, from which she proceeds, has neither life nor existence. It is a pure archetype ShA. As to eesh, the man, he has the Yod of existence but no Heh: he in not really alive. When we deeply investigate the notions, existence and life, we can discover that these scherata [words] are an excellent and well-observed description of what our humanity actually is." [The Cipher of Genesis, p.113]* see [311](311).

> 3. Gaskell says that woman is *"A symbol of the emotion-nature of the soul, which is to be transmuted from the astral [emotional] to the buddhic [intuitive] state... and the love-wisdom within the soul [In Genesis 2:21-21] cause a state of latency to overtake the mind (man), so that it was for a time unable to carry on its activities. And on the mind plane, one of the higher sub-planes (rib) was specifically selected in accordance with the divine scheme, as the abode of the higher soul related to buddhi, and thereon was the emotion-nature (woman) evolved; and this new factor was brought into relation with the lower mind. And the mind acknowledges the better half of itself to be now of its own substance, and recognizes the mind-emotion that which is apparently dual within the mind itself." [Dictionary of All Scriptures and Myths, pp. 821-822]*

> 4. Swendenborg assets that *"by the woman' is signified man's own, may be known from the fact that it was the woman who was deceived; for nothing ever deceives man but his own, or what is the same, the love of self and of the world. The rib is said to be 'built into a woman', but it is not said that the woman was 'created' or 'formed', or 'made', as before when treating of regeneration. The reason for this is that to 'build' is to raise up that which is fallen; and in the sense it is used in the Word, were to 'build; is predicated of evils, to raise up of falsities; and to 'renew', of both... 'bone of bones and flesh of flesh', signify the OWN of the external man; 'bone', the OEN not so much vivified, and 'flesh', the OWN that is vivified. Man (vir) moreover, signifies the internal man, and form his being so coupled with the external man... the OWN which was before called 'woman', is here denominated 'wife'". [Arcano Coelestia, pp. 72, 74]*

### [ve-Ruach Elohim](/keys/VRVCh.ALHIM) - ורוח אלהים
> "and the Holy Spirit" *[Genesis 1:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-2.htm) "And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the waters."* see [214](214), [86](86).

### [tzuri](/keys/TzVRI) - צורי
> "my rock" *[Psalm 18:2] "The Lord is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer; my God, my strength, in whom I will trust; my buckler, and the horn of my salvation, and my high tower."* [ALI, my God, accompanies this. see 347]

### [eyir IHVH](/keys/OIR.IHVH) - עיר יהוה
> "city of IHVH". [Isaiah 60:14](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/60-14.htm) "The sons also of them that afflicted thee shall come bending unto thee; and all they that despised thee shall bow themselves down at the soles of they feet, and they shall call thee, the city of the Lord, the Zion of the Holy one of Israel."

### [Tzipheoni](/keys/TzPOVNI) - צפעוני
> poisonous snake, viper, basilisk; a small hissing serpent, asp. *[Isaiah 11:8](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/11-8.htm)  "And the sucking child shall play on the hole of the asp, and the weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice' den."; [Isaiah 59:5](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/59-5.htm) "They hatch cockatrice' eggs, and weave the spider's web: he that eats of their eggs dies, and that which is crushed breaks out into a viper."*

### [Ab ha-rachaemim](/keys/AB.HRChMIM) - אב הרחמים
> Father of mercies. Suggest Chesed, sphere of Jupiter and of cosmic memory; manifestation on the Cube of Space. *[Gematria PFC]*

### [kiyoor](/keys/KIOVR) - כיעור
> ugliness, sin. Attributed to Peh, the letter of Mars as one of its pairs of opposites (grace and sin); the direction north on the Cube of Space. [Sepher Yetzirah 4:3] "Seven double letters were to signify the antithesis to which human life is exposed. The antithesis of wisdom is foolishness [Daleth]; of wealth, poverty [Kaph]; of fruitfulness, childlessness [Resh]; of life, death [Beth]; of dominion, dependence [Tav]; of peace, war [Gimel]; and of beauty, ugliness [Peh]. *[Gematria PFC]*

### [matrona](/keys/MTRVNA) - מטרונא
> domina; matron, lady, mistress. [K.D.L.C.K. p.528] An epithet or name of Briah, the creative world, "or the throne, which keeps the garden [of manifestation]; when, moreover Malkuth is called the lady [domina], then Briah is her maidservant."

### [nitzutzin](/keys/NITzVTzIN) - ניצוצין
> sparks, sparkling lights; squirting, a drop of water. [K.D.L.C.K. p.571] These sparks are said to be caused from the breaking up of the vessels of the braitic level, which are then raised into the fragments of light, which are connected with divine sparks and human individualities. see [288](288), [Rafach](/keys/RPCh). *[Gematria PFC]*

### [Rehael](/keys/RHOAL) - רהעאל
> "God who harvests sins." 39th Shemhamphorash; Angel of 6 of Swords (Tiphareth of Yetzirah). 191-195. PTÉCHOUT, Saturn. April 27, July 8, September 18, November 29, February 9. 12:40-1:00 P.M. *[Psalm 30:10](http://biblehub.com/psalms/30-10.htm) "Hear O Lord, and have mercy upon me: Lord, be thou my helper."* To cure maladies and for obtaining the mercy of God. Rules health and longevity; influences through paternal and filial love, through the obedience and respect of children to their parents. see [965](965), [1525](1525). *[Gematria PFC]*

### [Phurk](/keys/PVRK) - פורך
> Furias; Goetic demon by night of the 2nd decanate of Leo. see 786. The second decanate of Leo is ruled by Jupiter and has the qualities of: kindly, tolerant and urbane. The angel suggest subconscious imbalance, brining negative aspects. This name implies the force of Mars (Peh) giving false teaching (Vav) leading to ego centric action (Resh) in unending cycles of personal grasp, eluding the true quest (Kaph). In the tarot minor arcana this decanate is attributed to the 6 of Wands, or the operation of egoic principle in the archetypal world. When illdignified, as here, it can indicate loss through love affairs of success and happiness, waste in pleasure and trouble through pride of riches or through insolence based on success. *[Gematria PFC]*

### [shah'ah](/keys/ShAH) - שאה
> to rage, to be noisy; to rush, roar (of water). [Isaiah 17:12](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/17-12.htm) "Woe to the armies of many people, which make a noise like a roaring of the seas! and to the rushing of nations, that rush like the rushing of mighty waters." Also the 28th Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 4th quinance (16°-20°) of Sagittarius, according to Godwin. see [321](321).

### [Rimmon](/keys/RIMVN) - רימון
> malo-granatum. [Mathers] Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.689] says Netzach and Hod are called two pomegranates in the Zoharic text.