## 310 - Three Hundred Ten
> (2x5x31)

---

###  [aur ha-kokabim](/keys/AVR.HKVKBIM) - אור הכוכבים
> Light of the stars, astral light; The Great Magical Agent. see [207](207), [49](49), [74](74).  Otherwise know as the alchemical first matter. see [103](103), [870](870).

---

###  [chabash](/keys/ChBSh) - חבש
> to bind, to bridle, to rule, to govern.

---

### [yesh, ish](/keys/ISh) - יש
> is, are, essence, being. *"Loin that day shall the light that is bind fast every hideous shape of darkness."* [Book of Tokens]

---

### [kephir](/keys/KPIR) - כפיר
> a young lion. As a young lion, the initiate conquers all the phantoms of delusion.

---

### [dush](/keys/DVSh) - דוש
> to trample on, to conquer. *"As a young lion trampled upon his prey."* [Book of Tokens]

---

### [Samekh (spelt in full)](/keys/SMK.MIM.KP) - סמך מים כף
> Refers to "the fullness of that blessed vision [Book of Tokens]. see [536](536), [120](120).

---

### [medorin](/keys/MDVRIN) - מדורין
> habitations. *"And all thy habitations shall be blessed by the white brilliance which descendeth from the crown."* [Book of Tokens, Samekh] see [960](960).

---

### [rom](/keys/ROM) - רעם
> Thunder. Refers to the fiery nature of Shin (see [360](360)).

---

### [yawkar](/keys/IQR) - יקר
> precious, costly, dear; rare; scarce; heavy; weighty; glorious; splendid. see [710](710).

---

### [Yod:Resh:Qoph](/keys/I-R-Q) - י־ר־ק
> the initials of Idra Rabba ??? The qabalistic treatise called "the Greater Holy Assembly". Note that each letter is half the value of the letter of KThR Kether. Also:

---

### [yereq](/keys/IRQ) - ירק
> greenness; green things; vegetables; green herbs; herbage, grass.

---

###  [omar](/keys/OMR) - עמר
> to sprout. Root of OMRH, Gomorrah. see [315](315), [50](50), [106](106), [700](700); [78](78).

---

### [omer](/keys/OMR) - עמר
> the [dry] measure of manna [MN, [90](90)] for each of the Israelites in the wilderness [Exodus 16:32](http://biblehub.com/exodus/16-32.htm): *"And Moses said, this is the thing which the Lord commandeth, fill an omer of it to be kept for your generations; that they may see the bread where with I have fed you in the wilderness, when I brought you forth from the land of Egypt."* also: sheaf; OMR (awmahr) to heap up.

---

### [yaitzar](/keys/IITzR) - ייצר
> formed [IRQ 229] from ITzR, form, pottery, imagination.

---

### [sheat](/keys/ShAT) - שאט
> to despise; "contempt".

---

### [shebakh](/keys/ShBCh) - שבח
> to praise, to laud. [Daniel 4:34](http://biblehub.com/daniel/4-34.htm): *"At the end that time, I Nebuchadnezzar, raised my eyes towards heaven, and my sanity was restored. Then I praised the most high; I honored and glorified him who lives forever. his dominions is an eternal dominion; his kingdom endures from generation to generation."*

---

### [shyee](/keys/ShI) - שי
> gift, present. [Isaiah 18:7](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/18-7.htm): *"At that time the present shall be brought to the Lord of Hosts form a people dishonored and trodden under foot, whose land the rivers have spoiled, to the place of he name of the Lord of hosts, the Mount Zion."*

> In plural in [Psalm 68:29](http://biblehub.com/psalms/68-29.htm): *"Out of your temple at Jerusalem shall kings bring presents to you."*

---

### [ratzaheyah](/keys/RTzHIH) - רצהיה
> Ritziah, "Jah is a friend"; a Phoenician name, similar to Ratziel. see [331](331), [15](15).

---

### See Also:

- [31](31)
- [4](4)
- [BibleWheel: 310](https://www.biblewheel.com/GR/GR_Database.php?Gem_Number=310)

