## 311 - Three Hundred Eleven
> (prime)

### [Raphael](/keys/RPAL) - רפאל
> "God the Healer", the Archangel of Hod, Air, East, and of Mercury. The name designates the Life-power as the active principle of intellect, whereby things are brought to fulfillment and perfection. Also the Angel of Chokmah in Briah, the world of creation.

### [shebet](/keys/ShBT) - שבט
> rod, stick, branch, staff or scepter, a clan or tribe. These meanings associate with the wand of the Magician and with the magic of self-conscious intellect. The month of Shebet in Hebrew corresponds to Aquarius and Man, the water bearer. Note also that the number of Raphael is the same as that of Tzaphquiel, the archangel of Binah manifesting Itself as the Divine Soul, Neshamah. see [1217](1217).

> The divine rod that was delivered into his hand, as we read: 'With the rod of God in my [Moses] hand' [[Exodus 17:9](http://biblehub.com/exodus/17-9.htm)] which is the same rod which was created in the twilight on the eve of the Sabbath and on which there was engraved the divine name in sacred letters. Rod in [Psalm 23:4](http://biblehub.com/psalms/23-4.htm): *"Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil; for thou are with me; thy rod and thy staff they comfort me."* Other meanings: lance, spear; reed, pen. see Moses ([345](345)), [1308](1308), [1311](1311), [1000](1000).

### [Tzaphqiel](/keys/TzPQIAL) - צפקיאל
> "Contemplation of God." The archangel associated with Binah (3 of Cups). It refers to the Divine Vision, which is the Life-power's perception of the logical consequences of what It knows Itself to be. This Contemplation look upwards to Yekhidah, The One Self, and is the "Beholder of God," as well as the One who looks down through the abyss and is "God's Sentry." The One Power manifesting itself as the divine soul, Neshamah. see [101](101), [97](97), [280](280), [246](246).

### [ha-asha](/keys/HAShH) - האשה
> "the women" (Eve before named). [Genesis 3:1](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-1.htm): *"And he (the serpent) said unto the woman, yea, hath God said, ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?"* Note that man is spelled איש, with a Yod, but there is no Yod in the name for women.

### [Aish](/keys/AISh) - איש
> man (a particular individual, as distinguished from the generic man Adam). Tiphareth as husband or spouse to Malkuth, the bride. Intimates that personal man can partake of the Divine Vision when he succeeds in attuning himself to guidance from Neshamah. see [45](45), [52](52), [80](80), [1081](1081), [478](478), [536](536), [548](548), [640](640), [301](301), [727](727).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"איש, intellectual man... here is a new denomination given to man. It appears for the first time, when the Being of beings, having declared that it was not good for universal man, Adam, to live alone in the solitude of his universality, has effected his individuality, in giving him an auxiliary force, a companion, created in his light and destined to him to reflect his image."*

### See Also:

- [5](5)
