## 312 - Three Hundred Twelve
> (3x8x13). 12x26: The complete expression of (12) of the powers of the one reality, designated by IHVH. 12 times 26 is also the multiplication of the 12 boundaries by a cube having faces of 26 by 26 or 676, as the area of each of its six faces.

---

### [ma-arahb](/keys/MORB) - מערב
> West. The direction west.

---

### [biqer](/keys/BIQR) - ביקר
> morning.

---

### [khodesh](/keys/ChDSh) - חדש
> new moon, month, mating (of animals). Also Khawdawsh: new, fresh.

---

### [kiddeysh](/keys/ChDSh) - חדש
> as verb meaning to renew, restore, do afresh, to produce something new. Now is the only time when anything can be new. Only at the end of a cycle may a hitherto unheard of things exist. Also to promulgate a new law; establish a new reputation (describes the work undertaking by a Rosicrucian fraternity).

---

### [leka yom aph-leka laiylah](/keys/LK.IVM.AP-LK.LILH) - לך יום אף־לך לילה
> *"The day is thine, the night is also thine".* [Psalm 74:16](http://biblehub.com/psalms/74-16.htm).

> Also translated: "Day and night are both thine." This, too, is truth about Now.

> - יום, [day](/keys/IVM) (56) = אור ([light](/keys/AVR), 207) = טוב, [good](/keys/TVB) (17), and
> - לילה, [night](/keys/LILH) (75) = חשך, [darkness](/keys/ChShK) (328) = רע, [evil](/keys/RO) (270).

> Evil is raw material of good; darkness = a higher vibration. This is the secret of the stone. Both are his, and לילה ([night](/keys/LILH)) precedes יום ([day](/keys/IVM)).

---

### [merubbah](/keys/MRBO) - מרבע
> four-sided, a square, quadrilateral figure. (Rabbinical Hebrew). Relates to 4, the number of the Sephirah Chesed, the sphere of צדק [Tzedek](/keys/TzDQ), from which the [21st Path](21) ([Kaph](/keys/K)), also attributed to Tzedeq, passes to Netzach.

---

### [ayin Jacob](/keys/OIN.IOQB) - עין יעקב
> the fountain (eye) of Jacob. [Deuteronomy 33:28](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/33-28.htm) *"Israel then shall dwell in safety alone: the foundation of Jacob shall be upon a land of corn and wine; also his heavens shall drop down dew."*

> These words occur in the blessing of Moses, a poem which constitutes the entire chapter cited above. They may also, as Qabalists point out, be translated, "The eye of Jacob." Jacob means: "to supplant". It is always the new that supplants the old. Thus in the Biblical story, Jacob, the younger brother, supplants Esau. And Jacob himself gives a blessing to the younger of Joseph's two sons, Ephraim. Jacob's name was changed to "Israel" or "He shall rule as God." Wherever Jacob is mentioned in the Old Testament or in the new, inner esoteric meaning has always to do with the idea of supplanting the old by the new, the familiar by some novelty hitherto unheard of. "Behold, I make all things new" is the secret of those who have learned to rule as God." see [100](100), [194](194), [246](246), [636](636), [182](182).

---

### [shawkhad](/keys/ShChD) - שחד
> to give, to make a present. As a noun: a gift, bribe. This word ties in with the basic meanings of the 9 of Cups, and the Archangel of the West, as the card of wish fulfillment. The Elohim which are the active Divine Powers of creation described in Genesis 1 are really powers of man. Man, when he attunes himself through the automatic consciousness to the Higher Creative Powers, is able to form the darkness by the WORD and bring forth the light, which is good. It is also related with the basic meaning of the [21st Path](21) of Chesed (Intelligence of the Desirous Quest), as its source, and to Jupiter, as expressing its quality, has an obvious correspondence to the idea of divine providence, its spiritual and its temporal gifts, and the reconciliation brought about by man's intelligent use of these gifts. These gifts are redemptive, freeing from punishment. Hence, the 21st path is called to some, "The Conciliating Intelligence." [Proverbs 17:8](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/17-8.htm): *"A gift is as a precious stone in the eyes of him that hath it: whithersoever it turneth, it prospereth."*

---

### [shebiy](/keys/ShBI) - שבי
> captivity; concretely, captives, prisoners. see [317](317).

> - In [Jeremiah 30:16](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/30-16.htm): *"Therefore, all who devour you shall be devoured; and al your enemies, every one of them, shall go into captivity; and those who trample over you shall be trampled over, and all those who plunder you I will give for prey."*
> - Also in [Lamentations 1:5](http://biblehub.com/lamentations/1-5.htm): *"Her oppressors have become her rulers, and her adversaries have made an end of her [Zion]; for the Lord has afflicted her for the multitude of her sins; her children are gone into captivity before the oppressor."*
> - "Captive" in [Isaiah 10:4](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/10-4.htm): *"So shall the king of Assyria lead away the Egyptian prisoners, and the Ethiopians captive, young and old, naked and barefoot, with there buttocks uncovered, to the shame of Egypt."*
> - And in [Amos 4:10](http://biblehub.com/amos/4-10.htm): *"I have sent among you the pestilence after the manner of Egypt; I slew your young men with the sword, together with you captive horses..."*

---

### [shawh](/keys/ShVAH) - שואה
> crashing, loud noise.

> - [Job 30:14](http://biblehub.com/job/30-14.htm): *"They came upon me as a wide breaking of waters; amidst a loud noise they rolled themselves along."* Hence storm, tempest.
> - [Proverbs 1:27](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/1-27.htm): *"When you fear comes as desolation, and your destruction comes as a tempest (whirlwind); when distress and anguish come upon you."*
> - Also: "desolation, wasting, destruction in [Proverbs 3:25](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/3-25.htm): *"Do not be afraid of sudden fear, neither of the desolation of the wicked, when it comes."*
> - And in [Psalm 63:9](http://biblehub.com/psalms/63-9.htm): *"But those that seek my soul, to destroy it, shall go into the lower parts of the earth."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [aggelos](/greek?word=aggelos) (Gr) - αγγελος
> a messenger, an angel. Messenger from God.

> - [beginning of text missing] *"... the oversoul or ruling power of the universe; and the Daimones were the conscious creative and energizing powers [like the ALHIM, Elohim], of every degree, from the demigods or tuteury deities down to the nature spirits or Geni; and all these, whatever theology may say to the contrary, are souls in various stages of development, whether the souls of the mighty dead of past ages, 'the spirits of just men made perfect', or 'ministering angels', the over shadowing souls of men still in the flesh, or the lower orders of spiritual beings that have not 'been born in human shape'. As the word had come to mean merely the shades or ghosts of the dead, it is so used in the New testament, where it is almost invariably applied to larvae, the unclean spirits or psychic phantoms of the dead, which obsess impure and mediumistic persons."* [The Magical Message According to Ioannes, p. 60]
> - Gaskel comments that the angel is a *"symbol of spiritual influences able to minister to the aspirations of the soul. They are messengers of the inner light to arouse the higher faculties. There are many intelligences who point the way to truth, and are a means of aiding the soul's evolution."* [Dictionary of All Scriptures and Myths, p.48]
> - Anna Kingford writes: *"God's ideas, like God, are real beings, divine personages, that is, Gods. Put forth by, and in a sense divided from God, in order to accomplish God's purposes, these become messengers of God, that is, angels."* [The Perfect Way, p.213]

---

### [abarehs](/greek?word=abarhs) (Gr) - αβαρης
> not heavy or burdensome; not causing expense. Written ἀβαρῆ in [2 Corinthians 11:9](http://biblehub.com/2_corinthians/11-9.htm) "For the brethren having come from Macedonia supplied before hand my deficiency [in funds]; and in everything I kept, and will keep myself from being a burden to you."

---

### [akakos](/greek?word=akakos) (Gr) - ἀκάκος
> Without evil, i.e. unsuspecting or simpleminded. Written ἀκάκων in [Romans 16:18](http://biblehub.com/romans/16-18.htm), regarding the wicked: *"For such persons do not serve our Lord Christ but their own appetites and base desires, and by ingratiating and flattering speech they beguile the hearts of the unsuspecting and simplminded [people]."*

---

### See Also:

- [6](6)
