## 314 - Three Hundred Fourteen
> (2x157).

Also the circumference of a circle with diameter 100.

### [Hu cohen le-El Elyown](/keys/HVA.KHN.LAL.OLIVN) - הוא כהן לאל עליון
> He was priest of the most high God (said of Melchizedek) [Genesis 14:18]. The reference is to the mystical high priest, Melchizedek. see [294](294), [4824](4824) (Greek).

### [hallel gamoor](/keys/HLL.GMVR) - הלל גמור
> perfect praise. Said of the Zohar to apply to Binah. [K.D.L.C.K. p.275] "... and that which is not perfect (praise) (is attributed) to Malkuth."

### [Metatron](/keys/MTTRVN) - מטטרון
> the Archangel of Kether and therefore related to the Ace of Cups. He is a personification of Yekhidah, the One Self. Metatron is also said to be angel of Tiphareth in the creative world. In this aspect he refers to the awakened Ego, conscious of its essential identity with Yekhidah. With different vowel points, is specially designated by the word [na'ar](/keys/NOR), boy (NOR). This is the boy in [Key 20](20) who is the resurrected ego consciousness, turning inward and eastward to Kether. In our experience, Metatron is the Central Self, said to embrace the 6 directions of space from the point within. Charged with the word of restoration and with the task of glorifying the bodies of the just in their sepulcher's [Zohar]. see [101](101), [311](311), [246](246), [280](280), [97](97), [320](320).

### [rowkhok](/keys/RChVQ) - רחוק
> far off, distant (as in time or place). [Ezekiel 6:12](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/6-6.htm) *"He that is far off shall die of the pestilence; and he that is near shall fall by the sword."* Refers to the remoteness of Yekhidah. Also: רחוק distance, separation, loathsomeness, absurdity.

### [shaddai](/keys/ShDI) - שדי
> almightily. A name of God associated in Qabalah with Malkuth, and therefore with Shekhinah, the bride. It is the Life-power under the aspect of omnipotence. In [Job 32:8](http://biblehub.com/job/32-8.htm) Neshamah is called the "Inspiration of the Almighty": *"But here is a spirit in man: and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding."* see [345](345), [594](594).

### [Shittah](/keys/ShTH) - שטה
> Acacia. The sacred wood of which the tabernacle and its furniture were made. Because this word is equivalent to שדי, [Shaddi](/keys/ShDI), Qabalists who wrote and edited the story of the tabernacle, used it to intimate that the actual substance of which the "House of God" is made, is actually the omnipotent power or energy of the Almighty. The "Most High God" the one reality seems to be far distant (רחוק), but it is really near at hand. Both the tabernacle and the temple of Solomon are symbols of Man. see [683](683), [36](36), [46](46), [252](252), [154](154), [224](224), [315](315), [731](731).

### [saggiyia](/keys/ShGIA) - שגיא
> "great", mighty. [Job 36:26](http://biblehub.com/job/36-26.htm): *"Behold, God is great, and we know him not, neither can the number of his years be searched out."*

> Also in [Daniel 2:6](http://biblehub.com/daniel/2-6.htm): *"But if you show me the dream and its interpretation, you shall receive from me gifts and wealth and great honor; only show me the dream and its interpretation."*

> "Much, many" In [Daniel 7:5](http://biblehub.com/daniel/7-5.htm): *"And behold another beast, a second, like to a bear, and is raised itself on one side, and it had three ribs in the mouth of it between the teeth of it: and they said to it thus: 'Arise, devour much flesh.'"*

> Also "very" in [Daniel 2:12](http://biblehub.com/daniel/2-12.htm): *"Then the king was very furious and he angrily commanded that all the wise men of Babylon should be destroyed."*

### [Chaiim ahl-olahm](/keys/ChIIM.OL-OVLM) - חיים על עולם
> "Life for evermore". [Psalm 133:3](http://biblehub.com/psalms/133-3.htm): *"It is as if the dew of Hermon were falling on mount Zionfor there the Lord bestows his blessing, even life forevermore."* Variant spelling see [293](293).

## Latin / Greek

### [Deus Omnipotens Magister Artis](/latin?word=Deus+Omnipotens+Magister+Artis) (D.O.M.A.) (Lt)
> Initials of the phrase "Deus Omnipotens Magister Artis" [SECRET SYMBOLS, page 35] "God Almighty, Master of the Art". The Life-power is the actual worker in the great art of alchemical transmutation. see [29](29), [45](45), [124](124), [84](84), [61](61).

### [magos](/greek?word=magos) (Gr) - μαγος
> a magician, sorcerer. One of the wise men or seers in Persia who interpreted dreams; any enchanter, wizard. in a bad sense, juggler or quack. see [676](676), [1060](1060) (Greek).

### [gamos](/greek?word=gamos) (Gr) - γαμος
> "marriage"; wedding-feast. [John 2:1](http://biblehub.com/john/2-1.htm): *"And on the third day there was a marriage feast in Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there."*

> James Pryse: *"Gamos, a wedding; union of the sexes; one of the arcane rites; the union of positive and negative forces, the blending of superior and lower natures. here the marriage stands of the action of the dual magnetic force in wakening the 'third eye', in the attainment of seership; but at this stage of the allegory, it refers only to one of those rare visions that come long before the permanent state of illumination is reached."* [The Magical Message According to Ioannes, p.89] see [1014](1014), [1785](1785).

> Omikron adds: *"A union of two, forming harmony. As a term in the science of the soul. It means the union of the higher and lasting principle (spiritual principle) with the purified soul (human principles): that is, the 'mystic marriage' - into which every soul enters as some advanced stage of its evolution, and from which the 'Son' (spiritual consciousness) is, in a virgin birth, eventually born. The purified soul is the bride: the lasting principle is the husband. Souls thus 'married' are becoming perfect. Compare the myth of Eros and Psyche."* [Letters form Paulos, p. 251]