## 320 - Three Hundred Twenty
> (5x64)

---

### [na'ar](/keys/NOR) - נער
> child, infant, boy. Refers to the boy shown in [Key 20](20), [Judgement](/keys/Sh), who represents the awakened Ego-consciousness turning inward and eastward to Yekhidah in Kether. Refers also to Metatron and Enoch. see [314](314), [37](37), [620](620).

> In [Exodus 2:6](http://biblehub.com/exodus/2-6.htm) *"And when she had opened it [i.e. the ark], she saw the child, and behold, the babe was weeping. And she had compassion on him, and said, this is one of the Hebrew's children."*

> Also "boy", said of Samuel in [1 Samuel 1:24](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/1-24.htm): *"And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with a tree your old bullock and an ephah of flour and a skin of wine, and brought him to the house of the lord in Shiloh; and the boy was very young."*

---

### [yishay](/keys/IShI) - ישי
> Jesse. "Wealth." The grandson of Boaz; almost always mentioned in connection with his youngest son David [I Samuel 16:1, 3](http://biblehub.com/esv/1_samuel/16.htm). *"...Fill thine horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite... and I will call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou shall do. And thou shalt anoint unto me -- him whom I name unto thee."*

> D.D. Bryant likens Jesse to Jesus or Yesod, but Dr. Case says that it has no connection to Yesod, although there may be an obscure relation to Jesus and Joshua. see [386](386), [326](326), [24](24) note, [321](321) variant spelling. [Case of D.D. Bryant, The Philosopher's Stone, IX].

> In Thomas Troward's Bible Mystery and Bible Meaning (p.171) He refers to the wonderful child in [Isaiah 11:1](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/11-1.htm) described as Immanuel and linked later as a prophecy of the Christ: *"His grandfather's name is Jesse."* Paul Case has this note: IShI = "The Living One" = 320 = ShIHI *"which hath been."* [Ecclesiastes 1:9](http://biblehub.com/ecclesiastes/1-9.htm).

> 320 is also the number of: והוא כהן לאל עליון, [ve-hua kohen le-el Elyon](/keys/VHVA.KHN.LAL.OLIVN), [Genesis 14:18](http://biblehub.com/genesis/14-18.htm) describing Melchizedek: *"And he was a priest of the most high God"* Here note that אל עליון, [al elyon](/keys/AL.OLIVN) =  [Immanuel](/keys/OMNVAL) (#197), עמנואל, so that Melchizedek is priest of Immanuel." see [294](294).

> Troward continues: *"And he is his own grandfather and Lord over this father."* Case: i.e. IMNVAL = IShI and he is ADNI "my Lord". [Psalm 100:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/100-1.htm): *"Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands",* the master of David, because he is actually AL OLIVN, the most high God. That is, when AL OLIVN is manifest as OMNV AL. He is ADNI "my Lord," the central directive principle in the breast, for DVD = Man." see דויד [David](/keys/DVID), [24](24).

---

### [ademah nekawr](/keys/ADMH.NKR) - אדמה נכר
> "strange land". [Psalm 137:4](http://biblehub.com/psalms/137-4.htm): *"How can we sing the songs of the Lord while in a strange land?"* variant spelling. see [815](815), [270](270), [50](50).

---

### [rayim](/keys/ROIM) - רעים
> friends, associates; brothers, brethren. Refers to the 4 who founded the Rosicrucian order. see [100](100), [220](220), [240](240), [340](340).

---

### [RC, GV, IA, IO](/keys/RK.GV.IA.IO) - רך גו יא יע
Initials of the four founders of the Rosicrucian Order.

---

### [C + RC + IO](/keys/K.RK.IO) - כ רך יע
The three Rosicrucian Brethren who remained the second year, after the departure of brothers B. and D., reckoning the founder as "C.". See [520](520).

> [Fama Fraternitatis](https://archive.org/details/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985): *"These six articles they bound themselves one to another to keep; five of the Brethren departed, only the Brethren B. and D. remained with the Father, Brother R.C., a whole year. **When these likewise departed, then remained by him his cousin [R.C.] and Brother I.O., so he hath all the days of his life with him two of his Brethren.**"*

---

### [soke](/keys/ShK) - שך
> abode, an enclosed dwelling; booth, pavilion. The indwelling presence. The first 2 letters of sakel, intelligence. see [350](350), [294](294), [800](800).

---

### [sake](/keys/ShK) - שך
> thorn, pick.

---

### [Saritiel](/keys/SRITIAL) - סריטיאל
> Lesser assistant angel of Sagittarius. See [Key 14](14), [60](60), [120](120).

---

### [Oiram](/keys/OIRM) - עירם
> A duke of Edom [Crowley, 777, p.22]. Edom suggests unbalanced force. metathesis of ROIM. see 880. Eram is associated with Malkuth.

[Genesis 36:43](http://biblehub.com/genesis/36-43.htm), [1 Chronicles 1:54](http://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/1-54.htm)

---

### [ve-hua kohen le-el Elyon](/keys/VHVA.KHN.LAL.OLIVN) - והוא כהן לאל עליון
> "And he [was] a priest by the most high God." [Genesis 14:18] :And Melchizedek King of Salem brought forth bread and wine: and we was the priest of the most high God." see 294.

---

### [miyawar](/keys/MIOR) - מיער
> "out of the wood" [Psalm 80:8](http://biblehub.com/psalms/80-8.htm) *"The boar out of the wood does waste it, and the wild beast of the field does devour it."* Refers to the vine plucked out of Egypt and planted [Psalm 80:8] The "vine" is the Christos; "Egypt" is the astral realm.

---

### [haebishaw](/keys/ChBISh) - חביש
> bound, imprisoned; a bandage wound; to bind.

---

### [sinar](/keys/SINR) - סינר
> apron. The symbolic apron of freemasonry binds the reproductive energy for higher use.

---

### [Aphrodite](/keys/APRVDITI) - אפרודיטי
> Goddess of love and desire; literal spelling transposed from the Greek. It is desire which binds. The relationship between Mars and Venus.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Iris](/greek?word=iris) (Gr) - Ἶρις
> [Iris](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iris_(mythology)), Goddess of the rainbow. Often depicted with wings and dressed in thin silk. She was a messenger of the gods, particularly at the call of Zeus (Jupiter) and Hera (the Moon) and daughter of Thaumas who was a primeval sea divinity, and Electra, one of Persephone's [probably the Empress in Tarot] companions who was present when Persephone was carried off by Hades, a central theme in the Eleusinian mysteries. Iris was a sister of the Harpies, winged demons who carried off children and souls. Virgil placed the Harpies at the entrance to the underworld. [PFC]

Of course the figure in [Key 14](14) could just as easily be the goddess Iris as the Archangel Michael.

---

### See Also:

- [5](5)