## 326 - Three Hundred Twenty-Six
> (2x163)

---

### [Yeheshuah](/keys/IHShVH) - יהשוה
> Jesus. Mystical spelling of Jesus. The divine name IHVH has the "Holy Letter" Shin inserted, and thus the son is united to the father (see [386](386), [26](26)). The meaning is "The nature of reality is to liberate (or set free)." Jesus is also Joshua, and Joshua was the son of Nun (נון). Also "Yah liberates." Yah is a divine name for Chokmah. Thus the name of Jesus really signifies "Wisdom is the principle of liberation." The essential nature of the creative order is the eternal tendency toward liberation. The central ego is begotten son, in perfect union with the father. see [426](426).

> *"The first two digits of [326, the number of this word] add to 5, and the last two to 8 [the proportions of each side of the vault of C.R.]. Taken together, the first two make [32](32), the number of paths of the Tree of Life, and the length of the perimeter of one of the 'keystones' in our diagram of the heptagons and heptagrams. The also two digits of 326, make 26, יהוה, [Jehovah](/keys/IHVH), which is also a qabalistic summary of the Tree of Life."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p.202] see 1480, 2368 (Greek).

> Mrs. Atwood writes: "St. Martin has a curious remark respecting the foundation of the two testaments. he asserts it to consist in the true pronunciation of the two great names (Theo. corr., p.244)x; This involves more than his words convey to common sense; as showing what really and originally the Old and New Testament is a development and fulfilment of the promise of the old, and with that fulfillment gives another promise." [A Suggestive Inquiry into Alchemy, p.576]

> Paul Case: יהוה and יהשוה or ישוע ([386](386)), for יהוה is the revealer of the law, and יהשוה by the addition of Shin = 300 = רוח אלהים, is the fulfillment thereof."

---

### [shaiiah](/keys/ShAIIH) - שאייה
> Vision. The Vision of the mystical Christ is what transforms Home Sapiens, natural man, into Homo Spiritualis, spiritual man. see [139](139), [45](45).

---

### [Chush, Cush](/keys/KVSh) - כוש
> [beginning of text missing] ... Eden, called Gihon. This land is connected with Ethiopia or Abyssinia. [Isaiah 18:1](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/18-1.htm): *"Woe to the land Shadowing with wings, which is beyond the rivers of Ethiopia (Cush)."*

> Also, the son of Man. [Genesis 10:6](http://biblehub.com/genesis/10-6.htm) Cush means "black or dark-colored" [Inman p.417] Ham is connected with Kehm or Egypt (subconsciousness). Gihon is "a stream" Eden is "time", the garden of delight. The influence from Kether, which fashions the son of God is seen by the materialist as the mechanical force (Kaph) behind manifestation, but (Vav) intuition guides the seeker to direct knowledge of the secret fire of regeneration (Shin). The son is conceived in the "darkness of Egypt" and brought through the stream of consciousness from time, into the "Garden of Delight". see [77](77), [124](124), [702](702).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"כוש Chush... The elemental root אש, which signifies in general, the igneous principle, being verbalized by the signs Vav or Yod has reduced the word AVSh or איש; that is to say, fire, physical or moral: and this word contracted by the assimilative sign Kaph, has given rise to the one of which we are speaking. This name which is found in the sacred books of the Brahmans, and whose origin is consequently, very ancient, has been rendered by that of the Aethi-ops, which is to say, the sympathetic fire of the globe. All allegorical names of which Moses makes use come evidently from the Egyptian sanctuaries."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp.80-81] For Gihon, see [77](77); [858](858) (Greek).

> Monitory of Freemasonry (p.33) A Mason in the Master Mason ritual asks an old man whether he has seen any travelers passing by: *"Yes; as I was down near the coast of Joppa (#[96](96)) this morning, I saw three, and from their dress and appearances I supposed them to be men of [Tyre](/keys/TzVR) (צור, [296](296)), and workmen from the temple. They sought a passage to Ethiopia [Cush], but could not obtain one, in consequence of an embargo recently laid on the shipping."*

---

### [Seku](/keys/ShKV) - שכו
> A place where Samuel stopped near Raman. [1 Samuel 19:22](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/19-22.htm) *"Then he also went to Ramah, and came to a great well that is in Sechu: and he asked 'where are Samuel and David? And one said 'Behold, they are at Naioth in Ramam."*

---

### See Also:

- [11](11)
- [2](2)
