## 340 - Three Hundred Forty

> 5x4x17. If the founder's of the Rosicrucian order be taken as C.R.C. and added to the number of the 3 co-founders's initials of the order, the total value is 340.

---

### [sham](/keys/ShM) - שם
> there, then.

---

### [Shem](/keys/ShM) - שם
> location, sign, token, memorial, monument, name, son of Noah. Often used in Qabalistic writing to designate the divine name IHVH. Refers to Tav and Mem at the center of the cube of space. see [26](26), [441](441), [476](476), [345](345).

> שם means "name" in [Genesis 11:4](http://biblehub.com/genesis/11-4.htm) *"And they said 'come, let us build ourselves a city, and a tower whose top may reach to the heaven; and let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth."* see [366](366).

> According to Fabre D'Olivet *"שם Shem... The sign of relative duration and movement which is connected here, and the sign of exterior action used as final collective sign, composed a root which produces the idea of that which is distinguished exteriorly by its elevation, its splendor, its own dignity. It is, in its most restricted acceptation, the proper name of a thing, the particular designation of a remarkable place, or of a remote time; it is the mark, the sign by which they are recognized; it is the renown, the splendor, the glory which is attached to them. In its broadest acceptation, it is ethereal space, the empyrean, the heavens over God. That one finds designated by the singular word, in Hebrew as well as in ???, in Chaldaic, or in Syraic. Its extremely difficult to choose, ???, so many significations, that which is most consistent with the son of Noah. Nevertheless one can without ???, translate it by the words, the sublime, the splendid, the radiant, etc."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.170]

---

### [nawtzar](/keys/NTzR) - נצר
> to watch, guard, keep; to keep from danger; preserve; observe, to keep secret. "He that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep." see [541](541).

---

### [nawtzar](/keys/NTzR) - נצר
> shoot, sprout. Branch in [Isaiah 60:20](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/60-20.htm) *"All you righteous people shall inherit the land forever; the branch of my planting, the work of my hands shall be glorified."* Figuratively, a descendant, in [Isaiah 11:1](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/11-1.htm) *"And there shall come forth a shoot out of the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of his roots."* And In [Daniel 11:7](http://biblehub.com/daniel/11-7.htm) *"But an heir from his posterity shall rise over his land, and he shall come with an army and might against the king of the north, and he shall deal against them, and shall prevail."* also: a Christian convert.

---

### [Sepher](/keys/SPR) - ספר
> Book. a reference to the mystical book of 7 seals mentioned in [Revelations 5:1](http://biblehub.com/revelation/5-1.htm). *"The Fama tells us that the first work of these breathern [the 4 co-founders] was the making of the magical language and writing, with a large dictionary. They also began the Book M. Thus their combined labors, where were dependent on the wisdom they received from brother C.R.C., are well represented by ספר, Sepher, or 'book'."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p.155] see [4](4), [16](16), [34](34), [64](64), [240](240), [220](220), [320](320).

---

### [maraq](/keys/MRQ) - מרק
> to polish, scour, be purged. As a verb to polish up; to finish, complete; to cleanse from sin by suffering. מרק broth, soup. This implies purification of thinking by water, i.e. right memory, to be able to read the "name" in the "book" of life. see [42](42), [97](97) (Latin).

---

### [layish](/keys/LISh) - ליש
> "Lion"; in [Isaiah 30:6](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/30-6.htm) *"The prophecy concerning the oppressors of the south: into a lamd of trouble and anguish, from whence come the young and old lion, the viper and fiery flying serpent, they will carry their riches upon the backs of young asses, and their treasures upon the humps of camels, to a people that shall not profit them."* And in [Job 4:11](http://biblehub.com/job/4-11.htm) *"The old lion perishes for lack of prey, and the stout lion's whelps are altered abroad."* see [211](211), [338](338), [310](310), [43](43), [460](460), [1702](1702).

---

### [shayli](/keys/ShLI) - שלי
> rest, quiet. "Quietly" in [2 Samuel 3:37](http://biblehub.com/2_samuel/3-37.htm) *"And when Abner had returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside in the gate to speak with him quietly, and hit him under the fifth rib, that he died, for the blood of Asahel his brother."*

---

### [Yasgedi Barodiel](/keys/ISGDI.BRVDIAL) - יסגדי ברודיאל
> According to Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.37] Angel of the 3rd decanate of Sagittarius. Godwin gives the 3rd decanate of Capricorn.

---

### [Magaruphia](/keys/MGRVPIA) - מגרופיא
> uncus focarius; fire shovel, according to Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.37]

---

### [RC, GV, IA, IO](/keys/RK.GV.IA.IO) - רך גו יא יע
Initials of the four founders of the Rosicrucian Order.

---

### See Also:

- [34](34)
- [7](7)
- [Bible Wheel: 340](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=340)
