## 341 - Three Hundred Forty-One
> (11x31)

---

### [kal-eretz](/keys/KL-ARTz) - כל־ארץ
All the land; the whole land. [Genesis 2:11](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-11.htm): *"The name of the first is Pison: that is it which compasseth **the whole land** of Havilah, where there is gold"*

---

### [Aleph + Mem + Shin](/keys/AMSh) - אמש
> The sum of 3 mother letters. Emesh. *"Any cube has for its skeleton... three lines... then the question arises, which line is Aleph, which is Mem, and which is Shin? Tarot helps here, for of the keys representing mother letters the only one which definitly combines the ideas of height and depth is Aleph... for the ancient the sky was often compared to a river.. every day moves from east to west, so that the stream of man's existence is often compared to a river, we take the line from east to west, so that the extremes of the Mem line are Venus the sea-born is in the east, and Jupiter the lord of rain is in the west, so that the extremes of the Mem line are predominantly watery. This leaves the north-south line, with its fiery extreme Mars and the Sun, for the letter Shin, which probably corresponds to Pluto rather than to Vulcan."* [Paul Case: letter to ?Craik Aation?, 1932]

> The Zohar refers to this in [II:231A, p.339]: *"This world did not come into being until God took a certain stone, which is called the 'foundation stone', and cast it into the abyss so that it held fast there, and from it the world was planted. This is the central point of the universe and on this point stands the holy of holies. This is the stone referred to in the verse, **'who laid the corner-stone thereof'** [[Job 38:6](http://biblehub.com/job/38-6.htm)], **'the stone of testing, the precious corner stone'** [[Isaiah 28:16](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/28-6.htm)] and **'the stone that the builders despise became the head of the corner.'** [[Psalm 118:22](http://biblehub.com/psalms/118-22.htm)]. This stone is compounded of Fire, Water, and Air, and rest on the abyss."* (that is) so Aleph, Mem and Shin, the three mothers. Note that the stone is set in the center.

Also: emesh. Yesternight. [Genesis 19:34](http://biblehub.com/genesis/19-34.htm): *"And it came to pass on the morrow, that the firstborn said unto the younger, Behold, I lay **yesternight** with my father: let us make him drink wine this night also; and go thou in, and lie with him, that we may preserve seed of our father."*

---

### [be-eretz Ham](/keys/BARTz.ChM) - בארץ חם
> "in the land of Ham". [Psalm 105:27](http://biblehub.com/psalms/105-27.htm) *"They showed his signs among them, and wonders in the land of Ham."* Ham (heat, warmth, #[48](48)) is connected with the concentration of energy, setting up whirling motion which generates heat at the beginning of a cycle of manifestation. see [936](936), [291](291).

---

### [awsham](/keys/AShM) - אשם
> guilt, offense; guilt-offering. Also AShM aswhahm. to commit an offense, be guilty. [Proverbs 14:9](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/14-9.htm) *"Fools make a mock at sin [guilt]: but among the righteous there is favor."*

---

### [shema](/keys/ShMA) - שמא
> the name. In the name of the Lord offenses are pardoned, and liberation comes.

---

### [pharah adamah](/keys/PRH.ADVMH) - פרה אדומה
> a red cow. [Note that PRH means to bear, fruit, be fruitful]. This may also be read "fruitful ground". see [50](50).

---

### [pharasa](/keys/PRSA) - פרסא
> expanse, diaphragm. Suggest the abdominal center, related to Jupiter and to Kaph. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.648] gives: expansun, septimentum, diaphragma, and refers to the space between the first emanation, and the crown, i.e. Kether, which is Adam Qadmon, then Briah.

---

### [siphayraw](/keys/SPRA) - ספרא
> Siphra; book of Halakhic Midrash on Leviticus [Aramaic].

---

###[safra](/keys/SPRA) - ספרא
> scribe, copyist. The book of law is written on characters hidden in nature, or the manifested world. The meaning of Kaph is to grasp this law of cycles.

---

### [massa](/keys/MShA) - משא
Burden, prophecy. [Jeremiah 23:33](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/23-33.htm): *"When one of this people, or a prophet or a priest asks you, 'What is the burden of the LORD?' you shall say to them, 'You are the burden, and I will cast you off, declares the LORD.'"*

---

### See Also:

- [8](8)
- [Bible Wheel: 341](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=341)
