## 345 - Three Hundred Forty-Five
> (3x5x23)

---

### [shiloh](/keys/ShILH) - שילה
> Tranquil, tranquility, inner peace. A mystical name referring to the process of liberation. "Shiloh shall come". [Genesis 49:10](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-10.htm). Refers to the Messiah. see [376](376).

> Also: A city in Ephraim (Taurus, congelation, [331](331), [656](656)), north of Bethel, first capital of the Hebrews after the conquest of Palestine and seat of the tabernacle till Samuel. [Joshua 18:1](http://biblehub.com/joshua/18-1.htm): *"And the whole congregation of the children of Israel assembled together at Shiloh, and set up the tabernacle of the congregation there. And the land was subdued before them."*

---

### [El Shaddai](/keys/AL.ShDI) - אל שדי
> God Almighty. This name occurs 6 times in Genesis and 3 times in the rest of the Pentateuch. With different vowel points: to appall; to be horrified, to make desolate, devastate. see [340](340).

> In [Genesis 17:1](http://biblehub.com/genesis/17-1.htm): *"And when Abram was nine-nine years old, the Lord appeared to Abram, the said to him, "I am the almighty God; walk before me, and be faultless.'"* And in [Exodus 6:3](http://biblehub.com/exodus/6-3.htm): *"And I appeared to Abraham, unto Isaac and to Jacob, by the name of God Almighty, but by name IHVH I was not known to them."*

---

### [Ha-Shem](/keys/HShM) - השם
> The name; Tetragrammaton. Godwin also gives: Husham a king of Edom, associated with Geburah. Edom signifies unbalanced force; Geburah is the sphere of Mars. see [51](51), [216](216).

> Written חשם in [Genesis 36:34](http://biblehub.com/genesis/36-34.htm): *"When Jobab died, Husham from the land of the Temanites succeeded him as king."* see [348](348) for correct numeration.

---

### [Mosheh](/keys/MShH) - משה
> Moses. With different vowel points: to draw out, to pull out, Also: debt, loan. Also: to massage.

---

### [Soham](/keys/ShHM) - שהם
> beryl crystal, also called "onyx stone." Contains the pattern of the 6-pointed star. In [Genesis 2:12](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-12.htm): a precious stone. see [44](44), [59](59), [64](64).

> [Webster Onyx]: Greek origin. "The nail," from the color of the gem resembling that of a nail. Any stone exhibiting layers or two or more colors contrasted, especially when it is marked and stratified with opaque and translucent lines. Onyx was valued highly by the ancients, and is much used for cameos, the figure being cut in one layer and the background consisting of the next layer. Webster Beryl: *"A hard, colorless, yellowish, bluish or less brilliant green variety or emerald, the prevailing hue being green or various shades, but always pale... Some of the finer and transparent varieties of it are called aquamarine."*

> In [Exodus 28:20](http://biblehub.com/exodus/28-20.htm) תרשיש is used to mean Beryl or Jasper, precious stone. Beryls are found under the heavenly Taurus. Connected with the hexagonal crystal, Venus, the "eye-stone" and are a symbol of undying youth. They are also linked with Sardonyz, Leo, the Tribe of Judah of the Ephod (breastplate) of the high priest. The angel of Beryl is Anael, linked to Venus. see [409](409), [1210](1210), [5](5), [403](403), [1207](1207).

---

### [shekaka](/keys/ShKKH) - שככה
> "He was appeased". [Esther 7:10](http://biblehub.com/esther/7-10.htm): *"Then was the king's wrath pacified (i.e. appeased)"* "Wrath pacified" or "Wrath appeased." Shekaka is the name which includes all names, in consequence of which that holy blessed one maketh his wrath to pass away. And caused Microprosopus to be at peace, and taketh away all those extraneous (matters) from the midst." [I.R.Q. 387] Because shekake = ha-Shem, the name.

---

### [shalot](/keys/ShVLT) - שולט
> dominator. i.e. both "the name" and Shiloh (king messiah). Rosenroth gives dominator in [K.D.L.C.K. p.707] and says Tiphareth is thus called, when it is considered under the idea of Yesod; i.e. as ruler of the vital soul.

---

### [esch lahot](/keys/ASh.LHT) - אש להט
> "The flaming fire." [Psalm 104:4](http://biblehub.com/psalms/104-4.htm): *"Who makes his angels spirits; his ministers a flaming fire."* Could be also rendered "the consuming fire." (Lahat=Magical fire) see [44](44).

---

### [shammah](/keys/ShMH) - שמה
> Thither, there [Genesis 29:3](http://biblehub.com/genesis/29-3.htm). Is there.

> [Ezekiel 48:35](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/48-35.htm): *"And the name of that city from that day shall be IHVH ShMH, 'the Lord is there.'"* It is the heavenly Jerusalem with 12 Gates, each gate a tribe of Israel. North: Gates of Reuiben, Judah, Levi; East: Joseph, Benjamen, Dan; South: Simeon, Issachar, Zebulun; West: Gad, Asher, Napthali. See [371](371).

---

### [Elohim Achurim](/keys/ALHIM.AChRIM) - אלהים אחרים
> The responsible creative powers; the creative guarantor or surety of God. Given as dii alieni by Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.106]; for none other than God is exacted and elevated, eternally living, etc.

---

### [be-shagam](/keys/BShGM) - בשגם
> "in that also"; "as also". [Genesis 6:3](http://biblehub.com/genesis/6-3.htm): *"My spirit shall not always strive with man, for that he also is flesh: yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty years."* Referred to Da'ath and to Moses [Zohar 1:38A]. see [474](474).

> The Zohar [I:38A, p.140] comments: *"And his days shall be a hundred and twenty years." This is an allusion to Moses, through whose agency the law was given, and who thus bestowed life on men from the Tree of Life. And in truth had Israel not sinned, they would have been proof against death, since the Tree of Life had been brought down to them. All this was through Moses, who is called בשגם [beshagam](/keys/BShGM), and hence we have learnt: 'Moses did not die, but how haw gathered in from the world, and caused the moon to shine', being in this respect like the sun, which also after setting does not expire, but gives light to the moon.' According to another explanation we translate, 'for that it, to wit, the spirit, is also flesh', i.e. it is long converted into flesh, in the sense of following the body and seeking the pleasures of this world."*

> בשגם, beshagam = 345 = Moses, משה.

> בשגם = "as also", or according to others, "because of their erring."

---

### [leishah](/keys/LIShH) - לישה
> lioness. In [K.D.L.C.K. p. 501] kneading. *"Lion; great and with abundant shaggy hair, also fierce."* In the Zohar Noah refers her to the sphere of Geburah, and moreover in [Job 4:11](http://biblehub.com/job/4-11.htm), "the old lion" indicates a total lack of influence.

---

### [shelehey](/keys/ShLHI) - שלהי
> end, tail (Aramaic). The lion's tail in [Key 8](8) is a symbol of the serpent power.

---

### [mesheogab](/keys/MShGB) - משגב
> secure height; refuge, strength, safety [Psalm 46:11 and 46:8](http://biblehub.com/niv/psalms/46.htm). "The God of Jacob is in our high tower." [This text is accompanied by a figure]

> 345 is the key to the Pythagorean triangle: *"If we inscribed within a circle a triangle with sides of 300, 400, and 500; then, if we let a perpendicular fall from the angle of the perpendicular and base, to the hypotenuse, to the circumference of the circle, the chord or line will be equal to 480, and the two segments of the hypotenuse on either side of it will be 180 and 320. From the point where the chord intersects the hypotenuse let another line fall perpendicularly to the shortest side of the triangle, and this line will be equal to 144 parts, while the shorter segment formed by the junction with the perpendicular side of the triangle will be equal to 108 parts. Thus the measures derived will be: [500](500), [480](480), [400](400), [320](320), [180](180), and [108](108). These are numbers, or multiples of numbers used in ancient Egyptian and Greek linear measurements"* (See Art. 47th problem in Mackey's Encyclopaedia).

---

### [sheleath](/keys/ShLIH) - שליה
> "after-birth"; secundine. [Deuteronomy 28:57](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/28-57.htm): (The woman who lives a luxurious life, her eye shall be evil) *"And toward the afterbirth that comes from between her feet, and toward her child whom she shall bear, when she eats them for want of all things in the siege and distress with which your enemy shall harass you in all your cities."* Part of the covenant which the Lord gave to Moses.

> According to Webster, in botany the secundine is the second coat, or integument of an ovule (immature seed), within the primene (1st) coat, investing the nucleus or center.

---

### [Mahash](/keys/MHSh) - מהש
> Mahash; fifth name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the fifth quinance (21°-25°) of Leo. see [360](360).

---

### [Sepher H](/keys/SPR.H) - ספר ה
"Book H", written by brother I.O. of the Rosicrucian Order. [Fama Fraternitatis](https://archive.org/details/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985): Brother I.O. *"...was very expert, and well learned in Cabala, as his Book H witnesseth."*  see [50](50) (Lt), [557](557).

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)