## 346 - Three Hundred Forty-Six
> (2x173)

### [ratzon](/keys/RTzVN) - רצון
> will, good will, delight, favor, good pleasure, acceptance, favor, satisfaction. Also: intent, purpose, determination, desire, wish, inclination; purpose. Name of the [20th path](20) of [Yod](/keys/I).

> It is good-will toward man and toward the rest of creation. The formative potency of the creative hand shapes things favorably for mankind. The star in the Hermit's Lantern or the hexagram is a synthesis of the alchemical symbols for the 4 elements, and the letters of רצון (Resh: Fire; Tzaddi: Air; Vav: Earth, Nun: water) represent these same four elements as phases in the manifestation of Light. One of the 4 occult maxims. The magical will is the radiant power of the Sun (Resh). It is something perceptible throughout nature (Tzaddi). He who learns by practice the art of true meditation becomes a powerful center of that Natural Intelligence. He who knows the one will goes through Life guided by the inner voice (Vav). The magical will is a power of development and dissolving power as well. It takes form in mental imagery (Nun). see [474](474), [131](131), [70](70), [701](701), [107](107), [20](20).

> This implies a degree of bliss inseparable from the consciousness of union with the primal will. (Resh) the beginning of the consciousness comes from taking the intellectual view that one is a child of the sun of life. (Tzaddi) meditation upon this awakens a feeling of live and gratitude to the one source of art and beauty (see 710, nesether), working through human action to produce beautiful results. (Vav) one opens oneself to instruction from within by deliberately assuming a listening attitude on a regular basis. (Nun) then one has conquered death and knows the higher manifestation of the Mars-force-consciousness of immorality and identity with the one self.

> Rawtzone also means "grace" [Lesser Holy Assembly 102, 108, 110, 111] *"If this רצון grace, be revealed, all those judgements are enlightened and are diverted from their concealed rigor." "And when this head, which is concealed in the head of the ancient one, which is not known, extendeth a certain frontal formation, which is formed for brilliance, then flasheth forth the lighting of his brain." "And is produceth and designeth (a certain effect) in this light (otherwise in this opening), in this forehead, whereon is inscribed a certain light, which is called רצון, grace." "And this grace is extended backward into the head, even unto that place where it can remain in the beard, and it is called the supernal, חסד Chesed, Mercy."*

### [tzanir](/keys/TzNVR) - צנור
> A water pipe, channel. Personality is but a channel for the out-flowing of the divine will into the outer world of name and form.

> > *"The Hebrew noun translated 'will' is רצון, [rawtzone](/keys/RTzVN), signifying grace, favor, delight, acceptance, satisfaction, graciousness, and good will. The number of the word is 346, equivalent to מקור [maqor](/keys/MQVR), literally, something dug, and thus a spring, a well. Another word having the number 346 is צנור, [tzanir](/keys/TzNVR), from a root meaning to be hollow, and signifying a water-pipe, a canal or channel.*

> > *"Both these words have to do with the ideas of the finding of water and its transmission. Thus they are connected with the occult theory of will-power, which has much to do with the discovery, and transmission of the 'watery' aspect of the one energy. The letters of רצון (and of צנוך also related to a Qabalistic formula for the four elements.*

> > - *"Resh is the alphabetical symbol for the fire of the sun;*
> > - *"Tzaddi stands for Aquarius, the fixed air sign;*
> > - *"Vav for Taurus, an earth sign,*
> > - *"and Nun for Scorpion, a water sign.*

> > *"Three of the letters in the word thus relate to fixed sings of the zodiac, represented by the mystical animals of Ezekiel, shown in the corners of Tarot Keys 10 and 21. The other letter, Resh, may be taken as corresponding to Leo, since that sign is the zodiacal house of the sun, and the sun is attributed to Resh. The idea intended is that Qabalists call will is a synthesis of the elemental powers. These powers are also represented by the word IHVH, a verbal symbol of the one reality which was, is, and will be. This synthesis is referred to in Key 9, the Hermit, where it is presented by the 6-rayed star in the lantern. This star is a key to the alchemical symbolism of the four elements, and it also suggest (as do the correspondences of the letters רצון and צנור) that the cosmic will-force is manifested in the radiant energy of the heavenly bodies...*

> > *"As a magician identifies his volition with the cosmic will his words become words of power, his thoughts work subtly to achieve extraordinary results, and his deeds take on the appearance of miracles. The keynote of this magical keynote to reality is to be found in the original meaning of the noun rawstone, that is, in delight, and in acceptance....*

> > *"There are... genuine and specific methods from making manifest the hidden potencies of the lifepower. Without exception however, they are methods whose efficacy is to be found in the fact that they express the magician's total and delighted obedience to the real nature behind the veils of appearances. The two words, maqor and tzanir, which are connected by number with rawtzone and signifying a well and a water-course show the nature of true magical practice. A magician digs down deep into the recesses of his own innermost nature. There he finds an unfailing source of the water of life, the fludic energy which can mold itself through mental imagery into any conceivable form. The adept then links upon himself as being merely a channel through which this energy is carried out into external expression."*

> [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p.40?, 411-412)

### [maqor](/keys/MQVR) - מקור
> A well, a spring, fountain, source; flow. This power which flows out into manifestation through personality is life water-the "Living water" of Chesed. see [504](504). Also the interior of the womb.

### See Also:

- [13](13)
- [4](4)