## 350 - Three Hundred Fifty
> (2x5x5x7)

---

### [saykel](/keys/ShKL) - שכל
> intelligence, consciousness, insight, awareness, understanding. Use to describe the Paths of Wisdom. Both awareness and ability to make practical use of insight. Applies to each of the 32 Paths of Wisdom combines שכ, [Soke](/keys/ShK), abode, with כל, [Kole](/keys/KL) all, the whole, every. True insight always perceives that whatever the form degree or category may be under consideration, each is really an abode for the whole being of the Life-power. Shin (Shin) symbolizes the creative Life-breath. Kaph (Kaph) represents conscious grasp, or comprehension of the universal order. Lamed (Lamed) symbolizes action to establish poise and equilibrium in man's conscious expression of spiritual powers. see [300](300), [868](868).

Because each Intelligence is associated with one of the [nethiboth](/keys/NThIBVTh), or "trodden paths", demonstration of each Intelligence can be seen as a *test* administered by the EGO in Tiphareth.

---

### [va-ya-re Elohim ki tov](/keys/VIRA.ALHIM.KI.TVB) - וירא אלהים כי טוב
> [Genesis 1:10](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-10.htm): *"And God saw that it was good."*

---

### [aphar](/keys/OPR) - עפר
> dust. Out of the dust of the ground was the essence of man (Adam) created by Jehovah-Elohim. One spelling of Ophir. see [297](297), [45](45), [50](50), [451](451), [1881](1881), [422](422).

> - Also: dry and loose earth soil, powder; ashes;
> - עפר young mule, youth. roe. see [795](795).

---

### [saphir](/keys/SPIR) - ספיר
> sapphire, the dark, delicate colored semi-precious stone. It also means beam or ray of light from the sun. Part of the breastplate of the High Priest. [Exodus 28:18](http://biblehub.com/exodus/28-18.htm): *"And the second row shall be an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond."* Note that 350 is 3 and 50, the numeration of the stone, [53](53). Rosenroth mentions the sapphire stone in [K.D.L.C.K. p. 19] as lapis sappirinus.

> This stone is attributed by Kowminsky to the 11th gem of the breastplate of the high priest, and to the zodiacal sign Aquarius. He refers to is as lapis lazuli; the Septuagint of [Exodus 28:20](http://biblehub.com/exodus/28-20.htm) reads ? ?, #[169](169), [beryl](169): "And the forth row a serpentine, a lapis lazuli, and a crystal; they shall be set in gold in their enclosings." see also #[839](839) (Greek). For the other stones of the breastplate see [45](45), [98](98), [702](702), [150](150), [345](345), [395](395), [370](370), [308](308), [84](84), [85](85).

> Isdore Kosminsky writes: *"For reasons state the sapir is placed in the eleventh division of the breastplate instead of the shoham, and we thus have complete harmony between the eleventh sign of the zodiac Aquarius, the eleventh division of the breastplate and the sapir stone which is translated as sapphire in the Hebrew Bible, the authorized version, the vulgate; as lapis lazuli or sapphire by Mr. Wodiska, and as lapis lazuli by Dr. Hirsch, Rev. J.R. Dummelow, and others. The Targums indicate a stone of blue color, and that this is the lapis lazuli there is no reason to doubt. In ancient times the lapis lazuli was termed sapphirus [Greek, σαπ?ε , #1166]; Puny describes it accurately as 'opaque, sprinkled with specks of gold,' and many antique ?intagli? in this stone have been found. The lapis lazuli was a very highly esteemed stone amongst the old world peoples, who called it 'the stone of heaven', the gem of the stars', and the Zemech stone connected with all things heavenly. Traditionally it is the stone on which was engraved the law of Moses... The connector of a blue stone with the blue heaven is consistent with ancient philosophy, and authorities agree in connecting this color with the sign of the mighty heavens... Aquarius... the Lapis lazuli then, is the stone of the eleventh division of the breastplate and on it was engraved the name Joseph."* [The Magic and Science of Jewels and Stones, pp. 50-52]

> He continues, quoting Swendenbung: 'The appearance of the Lord's divine sphere in the spiritual heavens'... Lapis luzuli derives its name form the Latin word lapis, a stone, and the Arabic [word] blue... Its composition includes for the greater part silica and alumina, with soda, lime, iron, sulphuric acid, sulphur, chlorine and water. It is assumed to be a product of contact metamorphism, and is described by Puny as 'opaque and sprinkled with specks of Gold; (yellow pyrites)... The stone is often found in tints of green, red, violet, or colorless, but these may be termed varieties... The ancient Greeks and Romans considered a piece of lapis lazuli-the stone of heaven-as the most fitting distinction to bestowed for personal bravery. It was regarded as a true stone of friendship and of the affection arising from friendship. Ancient physicians regarded this gem as of potent value in eye troubles one old prescription advising that a specimen be placed in a bowl of water warm but not hot, for the space of [rest of text missing]

> Also: SPIR chickpea; kidney bean; counting [note the feminine form of the word: SPIRH means counting, numbering; writing, recording, degree, quantitative category; sephirah, divine emanation, sphere]. see [403](403), [408](408); [186](186), [536](536), [604](604), [674](674); [1166](1166) (Greek).

---

### [qeren](/keys/QRN) - קרן
> horn; head; figuratively a sign of strength, might, power; glory, pride. A sign of strength and power. [Daniel 7:8](http://biblehub.com/daniel/7-8.htm): *"I considered the horns, and behold, there came up among them another little horn, before whom there were three of the first horns plucked up by the roots: and, behold, in this horn were eyes like the eyes of man, and a mouth speaking great things."* [Psalm 148:14](http://biblehub.com/psalms/148-14.htm): *"He also exacteth the horn of his people, the praise of all his saints, even of the children of Israel, a people near unto him. Praise ye the Lord."* Also: grandeur; corner point, peak, ray; principal, capital; damage done by an animal's horns. see [752](752), [326](326) (Greek), [1000](1000).

---

### [riqem](/keys/RIQM) - ריקם
> emptiness, vacuum. "Having emptied yourself, remain where you are." [Lao Tze] The influx of spirit when personality is put aside. Also: empty, void, vain, without cause, without effort. see 910.

> Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.689] givens vacuum, and says it refers to the cortices (i.e. Qlippoth), where there is no water but serpents and scorpions. he cites [Genesis 37:24](http://biblehub.com/genesis/37-24.htm) in regard to Joseph and his brothers: *"And they took him and threw him into the cistern. Now the cistern was empty; there was no water in it."* [Note that in this passage empty is spelled רק, Interlinar Bible]

> According to Young's Coorcordance this word means: empthy, vain. In [Kohlenberger: Interlinar Hebrew-English Old Testament] it is translated empty handed in [Genesis 31:42](http://biblehub.com/genesis/31-42.htm); [Exodus 3:21](http://biblehub.com/exodus/3-21.htm).

### [shan](/keys/ShN) - שן
> prong, point, edge, tooth. Variant spelling of [Shin](/keys/ShIN) (שין). see [360](360).

---

### [shen](/keys/ShN) - שן
> two. Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"שן [350], שני [360], or שנים [400] two. The root שן, composed of the sign of relative duration Shin, and that of produced being or growth Nun, contains all ideas of mutation, of transition, of passing from one state to another, of redundancy. Thus the name of this number in bringing diversity, change and variation, is the opposite in everything form the preceeding number [one], which, as we have seen, arrests division and tends to immutability. The feminine is שת, שתי and שתים."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored]

---

### [paruah](/keys/PRO) - פרע
Out of control, running wild; uncovered, bare. [Exodus 32:25](http://biblehub.com/exodus/32-25.htm): *"Moses saw that the people were running wild and that Aaron had let them get out of control and so become a laughingstock to their enemies"*

---

### [IHVH be-qirebbek](/keys/IHVH.BQRBK) - יהוה בקרבך
> Tetragrammaton (is) in the midst of thee. [Zephaniah 3:15](http://biblehub.com/zephaniah/3-15.htm): *"the king of Israel, even the LORD, is in the midst of thee"* see [830](830).

קרב: midst, interior, inward part, bowels. see [302](302), [98](98).

---

###  [Kokeb boqer](/keys/KVKB.BQR) - כוכב בקר
> the Morning Star.

---

### See Also

- [35](35)
- [8](8)
