351 (13x27) 26 = 351{PRIVATE }
HRTzVN ha ratzone. the Will, the good pleasure. The 20th Path of
Yod. "The 20th path is called the intelligence of Will. It forms
all patterns, and to know this intelligence is to know all the
reality of the primordial wisdom. Rawtzone [RTzVN], "Will," by
its four letters represent radiant energy or fire (R); air (Tz);
earth (V); and water (N). The occult significance of the word
relates to the idea of a synthesis of the 4 elements, which
synthesis is none other than the One Reality, the Ancient of Days
represented by the Hermit, and customarily designated by the
Divine Name Jehovah. What men feel in their very bodies as the
power called "will" is the surge of the light-force through blood
stream and nerve and tissue. see 346, 701, 1001.
ANSh Enash. man. Chaldee for man and a title of Tiphareth. This
relates once again to the personality complex of man-- the six
subdivisions of Ruach--as the instrument of dominion over the
formative Yetziratic forces. see 357.
NShA nissha. Exalted; elevated, lofty. Suggest the forces of
Malkuth as the bride who sits on the throne of Binah. Consider
also as an Epithet of IH, Jah. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.599]
gives: elevatus, and says it is regarded by some as Tiphareth, by
others as Kether; the Zohar refers it to Binah which is above
Geburah.
NShA nahsha. to lend, be a creditor, to forget. In the sense of
"to forget," as MNShH, Manasseh.
NShA nasa. to lift up, to raise, to exact. Implies that the
extension of the powers represented by the name IHVH has a
tendency to raise man above the level of mere homo sapiens, or
man as the result of the evolutionary process, to the higher
level of adeptship or sainthood.
ShMIA shemayah. heaven, heavens (Chaldee) [Daniel 4:20]. "The
tree that thou sawest, which grew, and was strong, whose height
reached unto the heaven, and the sign thereof to all the earth."
Shemia always represents the level of life activity called
superconsciousness. Root-meaning is lifted up. see 1035.
AShIM Ishim. "The fiery ones," flames. The choir of angles
associated with Malkuth in Yetzirah (10 of Swords). The masculine
plural of ASh, fire. [Note: When J. Craik Patton received the
instruction on the Cube from O.M.S it was called "the flaming
cube"]. Mathers gives in [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 38]: "Burnt or
incense offering." see 80, 301, 911.
ADNI HMLK NATzV Adonai ha-melek nehamawn. The faithful King
ARTz NVD Ertz Nod. "The land of Nod", where Cain found his wife.
[Genesis 4:16] "And Cain went out from the presence of the Lord,
and dwelt in the land of Nod, on the east of Eden. see 570, 443,
20, 60, 1161.
PRI BThN peree beten. children, offspring. literally "fruit of
the womb".
NQRA niqeraw. to call oneself; to be called, be summoned; to be
called, be named; to happen to be, to meet by chance; to be read
aloud, be recited. [From QRA. "to call".]
AShKL eshikol. cluster of grapes, bunch; fig. great scholar;
cyclopedia. see 439.
MVShH Moses, the initiator. variant spelling. see 345.
ShVMH sumawh. determination; determined. In the Interlinear Bible
it is translated "intention" in [2 Samuel 13:32] "But Jonadab son
of Shimeah, David's brother, said, 'My Lord should not think that
they killed all the princes; only Ammnon is dead. This has been
Absalom's expressed intention ever since the day Amnon raped his
sister Tamar.'"