## 357 - Three Hundred Fifty-Seven
> (3x7x17)

---

### [enosh, enos](/keys/ANVSh) - אנוש
> Man, mankind. The separate man, who is in error. The personality. As a proper name Enosh, son of Seth and father of Kenan. *"The state of the sons of God when they suppose themselves to be merely the sons of Adam, and the return to the original angelic condition."*" [31st Communication 2/5/48]. see [107](107), [45](45), [311](311), [1200](1200), [148](148) note.

> The word appears in [Genesis 4:26](http://biblehub.com/genesis/4-26.htm): *"Seth also had a son, and he named him Enosh."*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments:

> > *אנוש, corporeal man... This is the third name which Moses has employed to designate man. By the first, [#[45](45)], he designated universal man, divine similitude; by the second, איש, he characterized intellectual man, considered relative to the volitive faculty, free and efficient, which individualizes him and makes him a particular being; he now considers man in relation to his physical faculties and he call him אנוש, corporeal man.*

> > *Let us examine the inner composition of this third name. Two roots are found here contracted און-נוש. The first און develops as I have already said, the contradictory ideas of being and nothingness, of strength and weakness, of virtue and vice. The second, נוש, expresses the instability of temporal things, their caducity, their infirmity...*

> > *Thus constituted, the word אנוש produces its feminine נשה: but here the hieroglyphic meaning is discovered. I have already remarked that Moses or his instructors, wishing to draw form the intellectual principle איש, the volitive facility אשה, makes the sign of manifestation disappear. Now, in order to deduce the physical faculties of the corporeal being אנוש they suppress the initial sign of power Aleph, and that of light Vav, and put the word נש thus restricted, in the masculine plural נשים, a number which, as we have learned by the Grammar is confounded with the dual feminine.*

> > *Here already are three different names to man, considered as universal, intellectual or corporeal, of which the translators have made no distinction. Further on we shall find a fourth. I urge the reader to reflect upon the gradation that Moses has kept in the employment of these terms, and who gives him for companion אשה, efficient volitive facility. This facility, becomes הוה, [Hewah](/keys/HVH), elementary life, creates in its turn איש, intellectual being, man individualized by his will. Afterward, it is the intellectual being, who, under the name of Sheth, son of Adam, brings forth corporeal man אנוש, AEnosh, but already the physical faculties נשים [Noshim](/keys/NShIM), had been named as wives of Lamech, descendant of Adam, by Kain in the sixth generation. ...compare carefully Kain and Sheth, and the posterity of the one, with the posterity of the other. If he recalls that Kain produced Henoch and if he examines now the one which produces Sheth, he will find that the name of AEnosh, here referred to, differs only from the former by a certain softening in the characters of which both are composed. The vowel Cheth, which begins the name of Henoch, indicates a painful effort: the constant Kaph, which terminates it, a sharp compression: on the contrary, the vowel Aleph, which begins that of AEnosh, announces a tranquil power, and the consonant, Shin, which terminates it, a gentile movement relative to a transient duration. Henoch arrest, fixes, centralizes: AEnosh lets go, relaxes, carries to the circumference.*

> [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored (Cosmogony), p. 148-149](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/148)]

---

### [ahnoosh](/keys/ANVSh) - אנוש
> severe, incurable.

---

### [nasha](/keys/NVShA) - נושא
> to lead astray, to delude, to beguile, to exact usury. see [666](666).

---

### [nosay](/keys/NVShA) - נושא
> subject (grammatical); thesis, theme, topic.

---

### [ve-gabehem me'leyim einayim](/keys/VGBHM.MLAIM.OINIM) - וגבהם מלאים עינים
> "And their backs full of eyes". [Ezekiel 10:12](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/10-12.htm): *"And their whole body [Cherubim], and their backs and their hands, and their wings, and their wheels, were full of eyes round about, even the wheels that they four had."* I.R.Q. says that this passage and [Daniel 10:6](http://biblehub.com/daniel/10-6.htm) and [Daniel 9:21](http://biblehub.com/daniel/9-21.htm) All refer to the analogy of the man. see [1661](1661), [568](568).

> [Daniel 10:6](http://biblehub.com/daniel/10-6.htm): *"His body also was like the beryl, and his face as the appearance of lighting, and his eyes as lamps of fire, and his arms and his feet like in color to polished brass, and the voice of his words like the voice of a multitude."*

> [Daniel 9:21](http://biblehub.com/daniel/9-21.htm): *"Yea, while I was speaking in prayer, even the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning, being caused to fly swiftly, touched me at about the time of the evening oblation."*

---

### [esh akoelaw](/keys/ASh.AKLH) - אש אכלה
> "a consuming fire". [Deuteronomy 4:24](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/4-24.htm): *"For the Lord thy God is a consuming fire, even a jealous God." הוא connects "consuming fire" with a "a jealous God."* see [12](12), [182](182), [301](301); [1333](1333) (Greek).

---

### [kagad yakash](/keys/KGD.IKSh) - כגד יכש
> 42-fold name of Geburah in Yetzirah (5 of Swords). Has to do with divine volition, as it relates to the formative plane or Air activity. What is consumed is the appearance of separation.

---

### [sha-aon](/keys/ShAVN) - שאון
> noise, tumults, roar. [Isaiah 24:8](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/24-8.htm): *"The mirth of the Timbrels has ceased, the noise of those that rejoice has ended, the joy of the harp is over."*

> Also [Hosea 10:14](http://biblehub.com/hosea/10-14.htm): *"Therefore a tumult shall come upon your people, and all your provinces, shall be despoiled as plunder is divided when peace is concluded, even from Beth-el as far as the northern border; in the day of the battle the mother was dashed in pieces upon her children."*

> Also: "The sons of tumult". i.e. noisy warriors, in [Jeremiah 48:45](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/48-45.htm): *"For a fire has gone forth out of Heshbon and a flame from the province of Sihon, and it shall devour, the face of Moab and the crown of the head of the sons of Shaon."* see [565](565).

---

### See Also:

- [15](15)
- [6](6)
