## 358 - Three Hundred Fifty-Eight
> 2x[179](179). The divine proportion of Pluto (Sheen:300), Scorpio (Nun:50) and Mars (Peh:80), 3:5:8, the relationship between Nature, Humanity and God.
 *[The Gematria Notebooks of Paul Foster Case #358]*

---

### [Nachash](/keys/NChSh) - נחש
> serpent, tempter. Kundalini. The serpent of temptation. See also [363](363). ([More >>](nachash))

---

### [Messiah](/keys/MShICh) - משיח
> "the anointed" (one), king, high priest, which is translated Christos in Greek, and Christ in English. Assigned to Tiphareth on the Tree of Life along with Adam (humanity) and Melekh (king). The connection between the serpent and the messiah is one of the profoundest esoteric doctrines. The secret powers connected the serpent and the anointed are of fire, the element corresponding to the sign Leo. All practical occultism has to do with the right use of these fiery powers. Hence, it is written, "salvation is of the Jews" because the liberation men seek is a direct result of what is pictured in Key 8, where a woman tames a lion. The Tree of Life is a diagram of the progressive stages in man's mastery of the serpent fire and of his attainment of the kingship of messiah. see [90](90), [45](45). Messiah is also the "redeemer" and the deliverer of the lower personality from its bondage to the elements, for it is the one Ego or higher self. see [656](656) (Greek), [859](859). *[Gematria PFC]*

---

### [Makhodash](/keys/MChVDSh) - מחודש
> Renewing, renovating. The 26th path of Ayin connection Hod and Tiphareth. The root of this adjective is akin to the verb in *[Psalm 51:10](http://biblehub.com/psalms/51-10.htm): "Create in me a clean heart, O God; and **renew** a right spirit within me."* The same verb appears in *[Psalm 104:30](http://biblehub.com/psalms/104-30.htm): "Thou sends forth thy spirit, they are created: and thou renews the face of the earth."* Of similar import is the passage in *[Revelation 21:5](http://biblehub.com/revelation/21-5.htm): "Behold, I make all things new."* see [708](708). The renewal of the mind begins in "walking in all things contrary to the world," seeing that the One-life is the performer of all action (Mem). When personality has become as the hanged man, then is it transformed into the chariot of the divine self. All that makes up the personality becomes a vehicle for the One (Cheth). Then the voice of that life speaks in the silence which follows and the revelation of the mysteries begins (Vav). Love, sprung from understanding, the perfect love which cast out our fear, the unfailing love whose sphere is victory continues the renewal (Daleth). into the purifying fire of the superconscious Life-breath the devil is cast, become one with it (Shin). *[Gematria PFC]*

Baptism by the Holy Spirit. In the Tree of Life, a reversal happens in Tiphareth, and the roles of Self-Consciousness and Subconsciousness are switched; the pillars of Jachin and Boaz reverse polarities. Self-consciousness appears in the eighth sephirah of Hod, to receive baptism of Holy Fire before retiring to the pools of Yesod.

---

### [khoshen](/keys/ChShN) - חשן
Breastplate of the High Priest.

> It was set with 12 stones, corresponding to the Tribes of Israel. It was an oracle of great power -- the 12 stones had the mysterious power of lighting up with divine glory, these jewels were connected with the signs of the zodiac and inner centers of man's constitution. According to the Rosicrucian's these gems symbolized 12 great qualities and virtues: illumination, love, wisdom, truth, justice, peace, equilibrium, humility, faith, strength, joy and victory. (Manly Hall). It is significant that they were worn over the heart or sun center. see [1008](1008). *[Gematria PFC]*

> *...The word ChShN, khoshen, the name of the high priest's breastplate, brings in another mathematical element. For the breast plate was a perfect square, subdivided into 12 parts, so that each of its division was a rectangle of 3x4 units. In this arrangement is concealed a geometrical formula having to do with the series of numbers 0,1,2,5,8,13,34,55. The number [358](358) is composed of the 4th, 5th, and 6th terms of this series. In what manner this is connected with the breastplate is too intricate for explanation here." [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p.215]*

Also:

> - [Choshen, Chassan](/keys/ChShN) - Angel of Air; listed by Mathers in The Greater Key of Solomon; his name is inscribed on the 7th Pentacle of the Sun.

---

### [Ben-Ishah](/keys/BN.AShH) - בן אשה
> Son of a woman [1 Kings 7:14](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/7-14.htm); son of fire. The person so designated is Hiram Abiff, the hero of masonry. Thus it is also a hint connecting with all three citations in the list under [780](780).

> *[1 King 7:14](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/7-14.htm) "Whose mother was a widow from the tribe of Naphtali, and whose father was a man of Tyre, a worker of brass, and he was filled with wisdom and understanding, and cunning to work all works in brass. And he came to King Solomon, and wrought all his works."*

> The person so designated is Hiram Abiff, the hero of Masonry. Also means "son of fire", and thus relates to the archetypal man of the Tree of Life (Adom Qadmon), the architect of the Universe. see [1008](1008), [200](200). Note that AShH is the feminine plural of fire. It suggest that fire is the womb of manifestation from which all things are brought forth. The Tree of life is a diagram of the progressive stages in man's mastery of fire; it represent the "son of a woman", who is also the "son of fire"; whose secret powers are connected with the serpent and the anointed... represented by the master-builder in Masonry and in Gnostic Christianity by the Logos or Word. see 484.

---

### [debir, haikal, ulam](/keys/DBIR.HIKL.AVLM) - דביר היכל אולם
> adytum-temple-vestibule. Words designating the Holy of Holies, the temple, and its vestibule, respectively. see [216](216), [65](65), [77](77).

---

### [yaba Shiloh](/keys/IBA.ShILH) - יבא שילה
> "Shiloh shall come," a mystical expression in [Genesis 49:10](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-10.htm) referring to the coming of the Redeemer, or Messiah. see [345](345).

> *"358 is also the number of yaba Shiloh 'peace shall come'. Out of the fury and bondage of the great work which has time (Saturn) for its primary condition, shall come peace and rest. Observe in this connection that in the corners of Keys 21 are the symbols of the four fixed signs of the zodiac, indicating time." [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p.279-280]* see [713](713).

> *[Genesis 49:10](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-10.htm) The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh come; and unto him shall the gathering of the people be.*

---

### [Geshenah](/keys/GShNH) - גשנה
> Shame. It is past sins in earlier lives that cause shame in relation to the Mars force and its bodily activities.

> "Shame has more to do with the renewal of consciousness than may appear at first. It is with some understanding of this that evangelical churches put so much stress on 'conviction of sinm.' When one is thoroughly disgusted with one's own state, or with one's circumstances, it seems to be easier to make the required effort to begin afresh" *[True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p. 215]*

---

### [shebuim](/keys/ShBVIM) - שבוים
> Captives. *[Isaiah 61:1] "The spirit of the Lord is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me and sent me to preach good tidings to the meek; to bind the broken hearted, to proclaim liberty to captives and release to prisoners."* see [307](307), [352](352).

---

### [anasha](/keys/ANVShA) - אנושא
> Of men [Daniel 4:17](http://biblehub.com/daniel/4-17.htm). in the context the reference is to the Kingdom of men. Only man has the capacity to create mentally. That capacity is both the source of sin and salvation.

> *[Daniel 4:17](http://biblehub.com/daniel/4-17.htm) the most High ruleth in the kingdom of men*

Shouldn't this be [352](352) [anasha](/keys/ANShA)?

---

### [Bar Joseph](/keys/BR-IVSP) - בר יוסף
> Son of Joseph, i.e. Jesus. see [744](744).

---

### Greek/Latin:

---

### [dielogizesthe](/greek?word=dielogizesthe) (Gr) - διελογίζεσθε
to debate; reason; consider. [Mark 9:33](https://biblehub.com/mark/9-33.htm): *"And he came to Capernaum: and being in the house he asked them, What was it that ye disputed among yourselves by the way?"*

---

### See Also:

- [16](16)
- [7](7)
- [Bible Wheel: 358](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=358)
