## 360 - Three Hundred Sixty
> (5x9x8). Number of degrees in a circle. 1/7 of a week of times (2520 years).

---

### [ha-shawnaw](/keys/HShNH) - השנה
> The year (as a revolution of time, 360 degrees). [Psalm 135:13](http://biblehub.com/psalms/135-13.htm). As a verb: to do again, to repeat, to change, alter, to be different, to study, to teach. Also: sleep. [K.D.L.C.K. p.235] *"A year of 365 days, and in humanity (man) which is microcomus, 365 nerves."*

---

### [Letter name Shin](/keys/ShIN) - שין
> flame, tooth, fang. see [300](300), [814](814). The Golden Treatise of Hermes, IV says: *"The whole matter I know to be only one thing. But who is he that understands the true investigation and inquires rationally int this matter? There is not from man anything but what is like him; not from the ox or bullock; and if any creature conjoins with one of another species, that which is brought forth in like neither." Paul Case: "The 'ox or bullock' is Aleph = Air = רוח אלהים = [300](300) = Shin = Fire. Verb. sap. Now Shin in its plentitude is שין = 360 = 9 and 'man' = אדם = [45](45) = 9. furthermore שין as 360 is the circle, and this is a mode of the ellipse, or egg, symbol of the first matter."*

---

### [Ishsho ha-gedolah](/keys/AShV.HGDVLH) - אשו הגדולה
> "his great fire." [Deuteronomy 4:36](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/4-36.htm). *"And upon the earth he showed thee his great fire."* Note that ha-gedolah is [53](53).

---

### [ha-nawsheh](/keys/HNShH) - הנשה
> (That) which shrank [Genesis 32:32](http://biblehub.com/genesis/32-32.htm). Nawsheh written NShH, nahshah, means: *"to forget, to lend, become a creditor; demand, exact payment."* Pronounced Nishshaw (NShH): to be forgotten, to cause to forget. See [355](355).

---

### [ha-nahsheh](/keys/HNShH) - הנשה
> thigh-nerve, thigh vein, sinew, vein, dried veins or tendons; phallus, penis. But the thing with shrank is NID. The sinew which shrank is fairly obvious, considering its location. see [355](355), [377](377).

> In [K.D.L.C.K. p.235] *"The magnificent nerve, the sciatic vein. [Genesis 32:32](http://biblehub.com/genesis/32-32.htm). Rabbi Simeon ben Jochai calls this name the bestowing or shekinah with justice. Shekinah, moreover, is called GD which is said to be its place: It assumes moreover the "just" Yod, where it is put in GID."* [Genesis 32:25](http://biblehub.com/genesis/32-25.htm): *"And he touched the cup (hollow) of Jacob's thigh."* see [67](67), nagiyd, [17](17), [418](418).

---

### [IHVH Gibbor Milkhahmah](/keys/IHVH.GBVR.MLChMH) - יהוה גבור מלחמה
> The Lord Mighty in battle. [Psalm 24:8](http://biblehub.com/psalms/24-8.htm). According to the text, this is the "King of Glory".

---

### [Ishim](/keys/IShIM) - ישים
> The Flames, Fiery Ones. Angles of Yesod, also spelled אשים ([351](351)). Yesod is associated with the reproductive organs of the grand man. Shin is the center of that fire which builds all patterns in the vital soul; this is the "Almighty Living God." see [80](80), [570](570), [220](220), [127](127), [314](314), [31](31), [18](18).

---

### [ishin](/keys/IShN) - ישן
> to be weary, to wither, to sleep, old, inactive. The misuse or loss of the power of Shin.

---

### [Kokebay boqer](/keys/KVKBI.BQR) - כוכבי בקר
> "The Morning Stars". [Job 38:7](http://biblehub.com/job/38-7.htm). (Who laid the corner-stone of) *"when the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for Joy?"*

---

### [neshi](/keys/NShI) - נשי
> loan, debt; forgetfulness; the world.

---

### [tzoor yelawdekah](/keys/TzVR.ILDK) - צור ילדך
> Rock that begat thee. [Deuteronomy 32:18](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/32-18.htm). Shin is associated with The Morning Stars, the Lord Mighty in Battle and this entry because of its connection with fire and spirit. A clear indication of the power associated with צור. see [300](300), [127](127), [333](333), [301](301), [464](464).

---

### [raamim](/keys/ROMIM) - רעמים
> Thunders [Psalm 81:7](http://biblehub.com/psalms/81-7.htm). The power of the letter Shin, is the power of the *"Mighty Thunders of the swift flash, which divideth the one into the two.."* [Book of Tokens]. Singular רעמ ([310](310)).

> Rosenroth cites Jonitrua in [K.D.L.C.K. p.690] and says they refer to Geburah, as in [Job 26:14](http://biblehub.com/job/26-14.htm): *"And these are but the outer fringe of his works; how faint the whisper we hear of him? Who then can understand the thunder of his power?"*

---

### [skekem, shakam](/keys/ShKM) - שכם
> shoulder-blades, the shoulder, back; portion of land; to load. The heart-center is between the shoulders-see Jesus "my burden is light", i.e. the Fire of Shin which renews and transforms.

> Other meanings for this word are: שכם shawkam. to bend, to incline oneself; to lead up for a journey (early in the morning); to rise or get up early; to go early to a place; to do early, readily, earnestly, urgently, as in [Jeremiah 7:13](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/7-13.htm) *"And now, because you have done all these works, says the Lord, and I warned you in advance and spoke to you (urgently), but you did not listen; and I called out, but you did not answer."*

> "Shoulder" in [Genesis 49:15](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-15.htm): (Issachar) *"And he saw that his dwelling place was good, and his land fertile; and he bowed his shoulder to servitude, and became a servant to tribute."* see [365](365), [373](373).

---

### [schechem, skekem](/keys/ShKM) - שכם
> The name of the Old Testament city, represented by the standard of the tribe of Simeon (Gemini). See [Key 6](6) and compare with [Key 20](20).

---

### [shawlawl, shallal](/keys/ShLL) - שלל
> booty, gain, plunder, spoil, profit, to pull out. As a verb: Shawlal *"to pull out, draw out; to plunder, pillage, to hang on, chain, negate."* The profit of Shin is the higher octave of Mars.

> - [Joshua 22:8] *"And he spoke to them, saying 'return to your tents with much riches, and with very much cattle, with silver, and with gold, and with brass and with iron, and with very much raiment: divide the spoil of your enemies with your brothers."*
> - Also poetical for captives, i.e. for the necks of them that take the spoil, in [Judges 5:30] *"Are they not finding and dividing the spoils: a girl or two for each man, colorful garments as plunder for Sisera, colorful garments embroidered, highly embroidered garments for my neck-all this is plunder?"*
> - Also: gain, profit in [Proverbs 31:11] *"The heart of her husband does not safely trust in her, so that he shall have no lack of gain."*

---

### [Shemkah](/keys/ShMK) - שמך
> Thy Name (Tetragrammaton). [Psalm 135:13](http://biblehub.com/psalms/135-13.htm): *"Thy name, O Lord, endureth forever; and thy memorial, O Lord, throughout all generations."*

> [Psalm 8:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/8-1.htm): *"O Lord our God, glorious is thy name in all the earth, whose majesty is rehearsed above the heavens."*

---

### [shawni](/keys/ShNI) - שני
> scarlet, crimson. Pronounced Shani means: the second.

---

### [Ha-Messiah](/keys/HMShIH) - המשיה
> The Anointed One. Variant spelling of the word ordinarily rendered Messiah. see [303](303), [355](355), [358](358).

---

### [ophir](/keys/OPIR) - עפיר
> earth, according to Godwin; usually spelled without the Yod. see [350](350).

> Fabre D'Olivet writes of the 1st two letters: *"This root, considered as a compound of the sign of material sense, limited to that of interior activity, has only the idea of obscurity and of darkness..."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.420](https://archive.org/stream/DOlivetFTheHebraicTongueRestored/d%27Olivet%20F%20-%20The%20Hebraic%20Tongue%20Restored#page/n441)]

> Of the letters יר he adds: *"Every idea of respect, of fear, of reverence, of veneration. The Arabic [word] signifies a thing which is polished, smooth, without roughness, but firm, as crystal."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.367](https://archive.org/stream/DOlivetFTheHebraicTongueRestored/d%27Olivet%20F%20-%20The%20Hebraic%20Tongue%20Restored#page/n387)]

---

### [ketel-Hermon](/keys/KTL-HRMVN) - כטל הרמון
> like the dew of Hermon. [Psalm 133:3](http://biblehub.com/psalms/133-3.htm). see [343](343).

---

## Greek/Latin

---

### [Arthrikon](/greek?word=arthrikon) (Gr) - αρθρικον
> The uttered (articulated) Word. A Greek mystery term.

---

### [He nikeh aletheias](/greek?word=h+nikh+alhtheias) (Gr) - η νικη αληθειας
> The true victory.

---

### [proboleh](/greek?word=probolh) (Gr) - προβολη
> spacial projection. The basic power of movement away from a center whereby the Limitless Light concentrated at a center produces a cosmos. The Greek dictionary defines this word: A putting forward, especially of a weapon for defense; of a boxer, a lunging out with fists. Anything held out before one, a guard, defense.

---

### [hosioi](/greek?word=hosioi) (Gr) - ηοσιοι
> "the saints". Septuagint translation of ChSIDIM (#[132](132)) in [Psalm 149:5](http://biblehub.com/psalms/149-5.htm): *"Let the saints rejoice in this honor and sing for joy on their beds."* These are the masters of compassion-those who have attained the consciousness of Chesed, who express the quality of Jupiterian benevolence, and are exempt, as adepts, from reacting in any way other than with true compassion for their fellow men. see [132](132), note.

---

### See Also:

- [36](36)
- [9](9)
