## 363 - Three Hundred Sixty-Three
> (3x11x11)

### [Shaddai El Chai](/keys/ShDI.AL.ChI) - שדי אל חי
> Almighty God of Life, The Almighty Living God, Lord of the Universe. The Divine Name attributed to Yesod and to the Nine of Wands. The Almighty ever-living one which centers itself in all animate forms and finds its highest expression in the life of man. see [80](80), [11](11), [18](18), [23](23), [207](207), [570](570), [220](220), [127](127), [314](314), [31](31).

> *"Throughout eternity, with no cessation does the utterance of the Ruach Elohim the might of El Shaddai the source of Life; and the Living Soul Nephesh is the vehicle of that utterance. Even so may you see it in the letters of Nephesh, for the first relates to Perpetuity, and the second to Utterance, while the third standeth in the alphabet for Ruach Elohim the Fiery Breath of the Eternal Spirit of Life. To this the name Shaddai El Chai refers; for the Nephesh, or the Vital Soul is that same Almighty Everliving One, which centers Itself in all animate forms, and findeth its highest expression in the life of man. Through countless generations that Life perpetuateth Its utterance by means of successive generations of human bodies. It is on this account that the Wise aver that in Yesod is the field of renewal through procreation. Now AL ShDI, or more fully, ShDI AL ChI, is truly Lord of the Universe, and Holy is His Name, Blessed be He. Never have the Sons of the Wise forgotten this, nor have they ever blasphemed the source of Life. Yet have they known full well that not be generation only is the command "be fruitful and multiply" to be fulfilled. There is a fruitfulness beyond that of the flesh, and a multiplication of the power of life beyond the bringing forth of sons and daughters of the flesh. Thus in the word Yesod, may you read Yod, Sod - or Sod, Yod the secret of Yod. Now what is Yod? As a letter it betokeneth Creative Power, for it is the Hand. But the wise know it also as the channel for the transmission of Life, and Life is Chaiah, seated in Chokmah, to which Yod specially pertains. For Chaiah is none other than AVR. Now see, AVR is the number [207](207), and this is 9 times 23. Now [23](23) is the number of ChIH, Chaiah, and [9](9) is the number of Yesod; furthermore Chaiah is in Chokmah and is thus to be understood as the power of אב the Father. Thus may you know that Life and Light are one; that Light is always pure and always Holy, and that the extension of Light is its multiplication through forms. But forms are manifest in varying degrees, and when it is thine office to bring forth subtle forms, thou fails if thou miss thine opportunity through the false belief that in the bringing forth of forms less subtle there is any essential failure. Failure is the missing of one's highest possibility. But what may be failure for thee, may well be supreme attainment for thy Brother. For wherever Life is multiplied the giver of increase is Shaddai El Chai, and nothing that He effecteth hath in it any loss or evil. Evil are man's judgments, but Life Itself remaineth forever good.*

> *"Now the name שדי [Shaddai](/keys/ShDI) אל [El](/keys/AL) חי [Chai](/keys/ChI) (18) begins with the number [314](314), then followeth [31](31), and ChI is [18](18). This bringeth the whole to 363, and see, this is 11x11x3. Now [11](11) is אוד ([Od](/keys/AVD), see Franz Bardon definition of Od) and 3 is [Gimel](/keys/G). אוד is the magic power and Gimel is the beginning of [Guph](/keys/GVP) the body. [Aleph](/keys/A) is the Breath, [Vav](/keys/V) is the Link, [Daleth](/keys/D) is the Door of Life and is [Nogah](/keys/NVGH) also, which giveth the Victory. In Gimel or 3 is Recollection and Union, and for the wise the letters of אוד speak with a loud tongue. In Yesod is all this centered and they who know the secret of Yod, become the extenders of the paternal Life and Light. Thus is [Yesod](/keys/ISVD) called the [Sphere of the Moon](9), and that same Moon pertains also to Gimel, the letter of Union. Blessed are they who hear and understand, and understanding, live as they know.*

> *"There are many who seek to be spiritual at the expense of the body. They repudiate all that pertains to Yesod because they misunderstand its real significance. You may have wondered what this section of the Text has to do with the Astral plane, for there is a spate of words both printed and uttered concerning the astral, mostly based on complete misapprehension. Yet the Text points straight to the one thing, and that is, that the mystery of the 9th Sephirah is a secret of Yod. For competent Qabalists this will be sufficient, and the Text says quite enough to establish certainty, for it points out that Yod is the letter of אב, and dilates upon [Chiah](/keys/ChIH), so that one must be a tyro indeed who does not see that the secret has to do with the radiance of the stars, that is with Light, which is one with Life."* [27th Communication 1/15/48].

### [zera Elohim](/keys/ZRO.ALHIM) - זרע אלהים
> "a godly seed", seed of God or offspring of God. [Malachi 2:15](http://biblehub.com/malachi/2015.htm): *"And did not he make one [covenant]? Yet had he the residue of the spirit. And wherefore one? That he might seek a godly seed. Therefore take heed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth."*

> Literally, seed of God, or offspring of God. This connects with the attribution of Yesod to the reproductive organs of the Grand Man. Brother C.R. is described in the Fama as *"A seed planted in the breast of Jesus."* Note that the New Testament says the "seed" is the 'word". see [220](220), [430](430), [923](923), [277](277), [86](86); [878](878) (Greek).

### [ha-Messiach](/keys/HMShICh) - המשיח
> The Messiah. The Messiah is the Christ consciousness seated in Tiphareth. Yesod is the reflection of the Ego in Tiphareth and is thus of the same essential nature. Note that the New Testament says the "seed" is the "word". The serpent is the savior in disguise. see [220](220), [358](358), [430](430).

### [Be-Yah shemo](/keys/BIH.ShMV) - ביה שמו
> By (or in) His name, Yah. [Psalm 68:4](http://biblehub.com/psalms/68-4.htm). The American translation gives: whose name is Yah. Applied to the rider of the heavens, described by the word בערבות [baraboth](/keys/BORBVTh), which, in addition to meaning sky or heaven, also means desertplain, wilderness, literally the vast expanse of the sky. But in verse 33 of the same Psalm he is called the rider in the heavens again: [larokeb bishmi shemi-qedem](/keys/LRKB.BShMI.ShMI-QDM): *"Who rides upon the heavens, the heavens of ancient days,"* (i.e. primordial heavens). [qedem](/keys/QDM) is the word for ancient days, or the primordial heavens. It also means: east, front (as the opposite of back).

### [Ben-Ish](/keys/BN.AISh) - בן איש
> Son of Man. The scripture says Adam was formed from the 'dust of the ground', and careless superficial reading of the letter of this text and others like it, has led to an erroneous conception that man is a creature essentially different from his creator. To correct this, Qabalist add ADM and AISh the noun BN, Ben, son, in order to bring out the idea that the essential man is 'begotten, not made'. Humanity is of the same essence as divinity. 'Man' and 'God' are members of the same genus. As an old Rosicrucian aphorism puts it: 'Man is the son of God, and there is no God but man.' [TL 26:3] see [97](97).

### [gan be-Eden mi-qedem](/keys/GN.BODN.MQDM) - גן בעדן מקדם
> "A Garden of Eden Eastward." [Genesis 2:8](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-8.htm): *"And the Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there he put the man whom he had formed."* see [144](144), [53](53), [124](124).

### [ha-nachash](/keys/HNChSh) - הנחש
> the serpent. [Genesis 3:1](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-1.htm): *"Now the serpent was more subtle than any beast which the Lord God made. And he said unto the woman, 'yea, hath God said, you shall not eat of every tree of the garden?'"*see [585](585), [358](358).

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
