## 364 - Three Hundred Sixty-Four
> (4x7x13)

---

### [Aur Mopeleh](/keys/AVR.MVPLA) - אור מופלא
> Hidden Light. A name of Kether or alchemical Mercury, the first matter; sattva, "the illumination material." In his notebook, Paul Case gives "LUX occulta" as a meaning of this title of Kether. see [620](620), [207](207), [157](157), [397](397), [727](727).

---

### [shatanah](/keys/ShTNH) - שטנה
> resistance. *"The hidden light, veiled in those forms of manifestation to which man does not understand, seems to offer resistance to man. But in itself it is the hidden light, a way and forever."* [Case: The Flaming Cube]

---

### [sitnah](/keys/ShTNH) - שטנה
> Accusation. Also: opposition, resistance, hatred, enmity.

> - [Ezra 4:6](http://biblehub.com/ezra/4-6.htm): *"And in the reign of Ahasuerus..wrote they unto him an accusation..."*
> - [Genesis 26:21](http://biblehub.com/genesis/26-21.htm): *"And they digged another well, and strove for that also: and he called the name of it Sitnah."*

---

### [Abeni-asch](/keys/ABNI.ASh) - אבני אש
> Precious stone. Literally *"fiery stones, or stones of fire."* [Secret Fire pages 444, 453]. see [63](63), [301](301), [53](53).

---

### [ha-Shatan](/keys/HShTN) - השטן
> Satan; adversary; accuser. The "Father of Lies". see [Key 15](15). What takes man out of bondage (the bondage of Egypt) to renewal is mirth-cosmic joy of the One. see [69](69) (Latin).

---

### [messiacho](/keys/MShIChV) - משיחו
> His anointed. Note that משיחו "His Anointed" is numerical equal to השטן "The Devil," as is משיח [Messiah](/keys/MShICh) and נחש [Serpent](/keys/NChSh). see [358](358), [890](890), [526](526).

---

### [nechosh](/keys/NChVSh) - נחוש
> magic divination. Also נחוש [nachush](/keys/NChVSh): brazen, of bronze, of copper. This is the root of נחושה ([Nechushah](/keys/NChVShH)), copper. see [Key 3](3), creative imagination, Venus and desire.

---

### [Ertz ha-Chaiim](/keys/ARTz.HChIIM) - ארץ החיים
> "Land of the Living" [Psalm 142:5](http://biblehub.com/psalms/142-5.htm): *"I cried unto thee, O Lord: I said, thou art my refuge and my portion in the Land of the Living". In this quotation it is "in" (Beth) the land of the living. Relates to Hidden Light and "his anointed" -- in this, says Case, is the whole secret. "If we choose the Lord himself...the result must be that we should be in the 'Land of the Living, i.e. of those who live perpetually and live fully, because they live from the innermost and universal Lifeprinciple, which is pure spirit. This is complete freedom and brings our soul out of prison 'the truth shall make you free' this truth is stated in the sacred name. Therefore as the natural result of the liberation from limitation we praise the name of the Lord."* [Troward on Psalm].

> The Zohar [I:66A, pp.216-217] adds: *"The esoteric doctrine is that in the same way as the soul has to be clothed in a bodily garment in order to exist in this world, so is she given an ethereal supernal garment where with to exist in the other world, and to be enabled to gaze at the effulgence of life radiating from that 'land of the living'. Hence it is that Moses was not able to draw near to the place of God and to fix his gaze on what was to be seen there until he was first enveloped in another garment, as we read: 'And Moses entered into the midst of the cloud, and went up unto the mount' ([Exodus 24:18](http://biblehub.com/exodus/24-18.htm)), that is, he enveloped himself in the cloud, as in a garment, and then he 'drew near into the thick darkness where God was' ([Exodus 20:18](http://biblehub.com/exodus/20-18.htm)), and 'was in the mount forty days and forty nights' ([Exodus 24:18](http://biblehub.com/exodus/24-18.htm)), and was able to see what he did see. In similar fashion the souls of the righteous in the other world clothe themselves in garments belonging to that world, so that they can endure to gaze on the light which is diffused in that 'land of the living'. This is what Hezekiah meant when he said 'God, God in the land of the living' ([Isaiah 38:11](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/38-11.htm)). He was afraid that he would be found unworthy to gaze on that light because he had allowed the lifegiving stream to cease with him, through not begetting children. ([Isaiah 38:11](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/38-11.htm)) "I said, I shall not see the Lord, even the Lord, in the land of the living: I shall behold man no more with the inhabitants of the world."*

---

### [shedin](/keys/ShDIN) - שדין
> demons, devils. From שד, the singular feminine of שדה.

---

### [velachoshek](/keys/VLChShK) - ולחשך
> and the darkness. [Genesis 1:5](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-5.htm): *"And God called the light day, the darkness he called night..."*

---

### [Cheshvan](/keys/ChShVN) - חשון
> According to Godwin, the 2nd Hebrew month, October-November, corresponding roughly to the period when the sun is in Scorpio. see [1014](1014).

---

### See Also:

- [13](13)
- [4](4)
