## 380 - Three Hundred Eighty
> (4x5x19). Sum of the defining dimensions of Noah's ark ([Genesis 16:15](http://biblehub.com/genesis/16-11.htm)): Length [300](300) cubits, breath [50](50) cubits, height [30](30) cubits. The sumation of the letters of IHVH multiplied severaly by those of Adonai; [(IxA) + (HxD) + (VxN) + (HxI) = 10 + 20 + 300 + 50 = 380]. [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 41]

---

### [mispawr](/keys/MSPR) - מספר
> number. The secret number of Egypt and of occult science is "hid in number" [Book of Tokens, Teth] which veils the power of the Elohim. see [828](828).

---

### [arawfel](/keys/ORPL) - ערפל
> darkness. The "pure darkness" in which the creative force is made to rise is the obscurity of the subconscious plane of life-activity represented by the ninth path of Yesod. Initiates perceive the radiant darkness (Ayin) as veiling the liberating regenerative power (Resh). It tears down the prison of false separation (Peh) and is the source of power of adjustment (Lamed) which preserves the balance of forces in action throughout the universe. The power of Heh constitutes this creative force (see Path name commentary on Heh). see [219](219), [80](80), [423](423), [514](514).

---

### [Mizraim](/keys/MTzRIM) - מצרים
> Name given to Egypt by the Jews. The Uraeus, or Royal serpent is the characteristic symbol of Egypt. see [409](409), [358](358), [1702](1702), [667](667). Paul Case gives: difficulty, straitness, narrowness. The singular male noun is מצר, meaning distress, straits; boundary, narrow pass; strait, channel of the sea, isthmus, neck of the land. The land of Egypt is connected with the physical plane and with subconsciousness. see [671](671), [142](142), [30](30).

---

### [Ayish](/keys/OISh) - עיש
> Ursa Major; constellation of the Great Bear.

---

### [raqia](/keys/RQIO) - רקיע
> firmament, expanse, sky. [Genesis 1:6](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-6.htm): *"And God said, let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters."* (from Latin [firmamentum](119). "a strengthening support".)

> 1) The region of the Air; the sky or heavens; 2) established foundation; 3) the orb of fixed stars in early astronomy.

> Paul Case: The 2nd Heaven, corresponding to Hod. [Psalm 150:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/150-1.htm): *"Praise God in his sanctuary; praise him in the firmament of his power."*

---

### [shamam](/keys/ShMM) - שמם
> to be desolate, be ruined; to be amazed, be appalled.

---

### [otzab otzabom](/keys/OTzB.OTzBVN) - עצב עצבון
> pain, affliction, trouble, misery. From the root meaning, labor, pain; idol, image. The process of dissolving cells which reflect the illusion of separation.

---

### [qeshetira](/keys/QSTIRA) - קסטירא
> white lead, tin. see [370](370).

---

### [lawshen](/keys/LShN) - לשן
> to slander. Paul Case: tongue, language. In [Daniel 7:14](http://biblehub.com/daniel/7-14.htm) it is used in the plural for language. see [Key 15](15), the Devil or "slanderer".

---

### [nawshal](/keys/NShL) - נשל
> to slip, drop off; to draw off (shoe); to drive out, eject. Also: נשל. to stumble, fall. [Exodus 3:5](http://biblehub.com/exodus/3-5.htm), [Joshua 5:15](http://biblehub.com/joshua/5-15.htm); נשל to cast out, eject. [Deuteronomy 7:1](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/7-1.htm) The same "darkness" where the power of Nun works to drive out illusion, through the agency of the spiritual fire (shin) to balance cause and effect in all action (Lamed), also causes the ignorant to stumble and fall, but at the last it brings perfect justice and true faith.

---

### [peh-tzedek yehegeh chokmah](/keys/PI-TzDQ.IHGH.ChKMH) - פי־צדק יהגה חכמה
> *"the mouth of the righteous speaks wisdom."* [Psalm 37:30](http://biblehub.com/psalms/37-30.htm) ("and his tongue talks of judgement").

---

### [paraq](/keys/PRQ) - פרק
> to remove, take off; to release, unload; to take apart, to solve a problem; to discharge (electricity). PRQ pahraq. to untie, loosen; to rescue, deliver. It is the power of the marsforce (Peh working through the agency of regeneration (Resh) to bring about a perfected body (Qoph).

---

### [pash](/keys/PSh) - פש
> folly; haughtiness, arrogance. [Job 35:15](http://biblehub.com/job/35-15.htm): *"And further, that his anger never punishes and he does not take the least notice of great arrogance."*

---

### [Mishli](/keys/MShLI) - משלי
> Proverbs; title of Biblical text [Godwin].

---

### [Sepher M](/keys/SPR.M) - ספר ם
Sepher M. "Book M" of the [Fama](https://archive.org/stream/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985#page/n17/mode/2up). See [53](53) (Lt).

---

### See Also:

- [38](38)
- [11](11)
