## 385 - Three Hundred Eighty-Five
> 5x7x11. Sum of the first 10 square numbers. 1+4+9+16+25+36+48+64+81+100 =
385.

---

### [Assiah](/keys/OShIH) - עשיה
> World of Action or Manifestation. The Zohar [Prologue, 13A, p.55] says: "The eighth percept is to love the proselyte who comes to be circumcised and to be brought under the wings of the 'divine presence' (Shekinah), which takes under its wings those who separate themselves from the impure 'unholy region', and come near unto her, as it is written: "Let the earth bring forth a living soul according to its kind."

---

### [Shekinah](/keys/ShKINH) - שכינה
> Divine Presence. Attributed to Binah, the divine mother. A spark of which, carried into manifestation is part of Adam (humanity) and will lead him into redemption and mastery. see [395](395), [422](422), [426](426). A title of Malkuth, the "Cohabiting Glory," the actual presence of divinity in creation. Also called "Mirror of Tetragrammaton," [Elohim](86), [Adonai](65). In Qabalah she is exactly what Hindu philosophy terms maya-shakti, the feminine productive power.

> The Zohar [II: 199A, p.256] says: *"'After God created the moon [i.e. the shekinah] he had her constantly before his eyes' [Deuteronomy 11:12](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/11-12.htm) In regard to this it is also written: "Then did he see it, and declare it (vayesaphah); he established it, yea, and searched it out." [Job 28:27](http://biblehub.com/job/28-27.htm). 'He saw it' means that through his providence the sun is reflected in it. The term vayesaphah we may translate, 'he made it like sapphire'. He established it 'so that it should fall properly into twelve division [or tribes], and be further distributed among seventy kingdoms [of the world-Genesis 10], supported by seven celestial pillars, that it might be perfectly illuminated. 'An searched it out': to guard it with an eternal and never ending vigilance. And then he gave a warning to man, as we read further: 'and unto man he said: behold the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom: and to depart from evil is understanding' [IBID, 28:28], since wisdom is the means to attain to the fear of the holy one, and understanding is the power by which to separate and keep away the refuse, and thus attain to a knowledge of and an insigt into the glory of the most high king."*

> [beginning of text missing] ... all things are shekinah, he knows that he stands continually in the presence of God. When he knows that his place in the cosmic order is to act as mediator between what is above and what is below, he liberates what is below from the thralldom imposed on her by his mistaken notions. this is what is meant by liberating shekinah.

---

### [shammamah](/keys/ShMMH) - שממה
> Devastation, desolation, sterility. One of the pair of opposites (sterility) assigned to the letter Resh. Identical except in outer aspect with fertility. see [277](277). Also waste; horror, amazement. The disintegrative expression of Resh, the ThMVRTh or זרע (seed or fruitfulness). It is not, as Kalisch translates it, childishness, but the sterility of desert country, directly attributed to the sun. Resh is sterile when not jointed to the bride, shekinah. see [822](822).

---

### [pedahzur](/keys/PDHTzVR) - פדהצור
> "a rock has ransomed". Personal name in [Numbers 1:10](http://biblehub.com/numbers/1-10.htm) ("the rock redeemed"). From פדה Pedah to ransom, redeem, deliver. The redemption of the stone from the physical plane by shekinah.

---

### [sawpah](/keys/ShPH) - שפה
> lip, language, speech; border, shore; edge, margin, rim. [Zephaniah 3:9](http://biblehub.com/zephaniah/3-9.htm) "For then will I turn to the people a pure language, that they may all call upon the name of the Lord, to serve him with due consent." This is the "language" of vibratory attunement through the intonation of divine names, a form of mantra yoga. Also:

> - שפה curds, cheese;
> - שפה to plane, trim;
> - שפה to incline, make a slanting; to be quite, be at ease.

> The divine presence is met in silence. The organ which takes up, the mouth, the lip. [Paul Case on D.D. Bryant, IX, 8].

---

### [haarqi](/keys/HORQI) - הערקי
The Arkite. from [araq](/keys/ORQ), "to gnaw." Sons of [Canaan](/keys/QNON). see [385](385). [Genesis 10:17](https://biblehub.com/genesis/10-17.htm): *"And the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite"*

---

## Greek

---

### heh rabdos - η ραβδος
> the rod (of the stem of Jesse). see [377](377), [1210](1210) (Greek).

---

### hieros - ιερος
> sacred. "A derivative of this word is hiereus, priest [ιερευς, #[720](720)] who strength his 'sheep': 'to bear wool' seems to suggest maturity of power. The root meaning appears to be either purity or maturity: probably both these ideas are included. So that the compound word hiearche would signify the benevolent rule of those who were both pure and highly developed. [as spiritual hierarchy]. Compare hierosalm, hierophant, hieroglyphics." [Omikron: Letter from Pavlos, p.256] see [720](720) (Greek).

---

### See Also:

- [358](358)
- [16](16)
- [7](7)