## 390 - Three Hundred Ninety
> (2x3x5x13)

### [shemen](/keys/ShMN) - שמן
> oil, fatness. the oil is identical with the power of the heavens. Also: stout, robust, fertile, rich (soil). see [434](434), [696](696).

> "Fatness" in [Psalm 109:24](http://biblehub.com/psalms/109-24.htm): *"My knees are weak through fasting; and my flesh fail of fatness."* [Spelled משמן, from-fat, Interlinear Bible]

> "Fertile" in [Isaiah 28:1](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/28-1.htm): *"Woe to the crown of pride, to the drunkards of Ephraim, whose glorious beauty is a fading flower, which are on the head of the fertile valley of them that are overcome with wine."*

> "Oil" in [Genesis 28:18](http://biblehub.com/genesis/28-18.htm): *"And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that he had put for his pillows, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it."*

> see [807](807).

### [shamaim](/keys/ShMIM) - שמים
> heavens, firmament, sky, height. Literally, "what is heaved up." It is the superior term of the first great pair of opposites: that which is above. [Genesis 1:1](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-1.htm): *"In the beginning the Elohim created the heavens and the earth."* שמ means name, word, sign; therefore שמים means names and signifies the creative name or the Word. This is the element Fire (ש) with the element Water (מים) and symbolizes the hexagram, or the two interlace triangles. The oil expresses the forces of the heavens. see [430](430), [291](291), [451](451).

> This masculine noun שמ by taking the feminine plural or ות instead of ים makes a distinction between the creative name and all lesser names derived form it. The name שמים is written in the plural known to scholars as the "plural of majesty." By such device the priestly writers who invented written Hebrew as a secret code were able to conceal the mysteries from all but initiates. Solomon built his temple to this Name. In St. John's gospel Jesus says: "I have declared unto them thy name." This is the doctrine that he power "which is above" is the power of the creative Word. see [800](800), [895](895), [1499](1499), [1356](1356), [1775](1775), [1856](1856).

### [zakar ve-nequbah](/keys/ZKR.VNQBH) - זכר ונקבה
> male and female [Genesis 1:27](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-27.htm). The oil is manifested on every plane as male and female. "male and female he created them. see [389](389) for Aramaic spelling.

> According to Fabre D'Olivet: *"זכר ונקבה male and female.... the root of the first of these words is כר, which expresses that which is apparent, eminent that which serves as monument or as character, to preserve the memory of things. It is the elementary root אר united to the assimilative sign Kaph, and ruled by the demonstrative sign Zain.*

> *"The second of these words has for root קב, whose meaning, entirely opposed to that of כר, is applied to that which is hidden and not apparent; to that which is graven, hollowed out, enveloped. The sign Nun which rules it is the image of passive action.*

> *"It must be observed that the verb ברוא, to create, which in the Hebrew text, expresses the action of the Supreme Being creating man male and female, is rendered in the Samaritan version by [word], which, as can be judged by the Hebrew and Chaldaic analogue כון, preserved in Syriac and Ethiopic, signifies to identify, to naturalize."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, Cosmogony of Moses, p59-60 (djvu 553-554)]

### [sepharim](/keys/SPRIM) - ספרים
> letters, numbers, numberings. These forces are represented by the 22 letters or the Hebrew alphabet. Each letter having a numerical value explains the Sepher Yetzirah's declaration that by these 22 letters God created the universe. They imply a mathematical and geometrical creative order. Indeed knowing how to "count" with these tools is an essential ingredient in personal evolution.

See also: [sephiroth](/keys/SPIRVTh), [756](756).

### [tzelawor](/keys/TzLOR) - צלער
> rib. Written הצלע in [Genesis 2:22](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-22.htm): *"And the rib, which the Lord God had taken from man, made he a woman, and brought her unto the man."*

> Commenting on the use of this word in verse 21, Fabre D'Olivet says: *"מצלעתיו [Mitzalotav](/keys/MTzLOThIV) of-the-involutions-of-him... One cannot, in a word wherein are formed so many different images choose an idea more petty and more material, than that which the Hellenist have rendered by the word plenra, πλενρα, a rib. Saint Jerome who has said in bad Latin 'unam de cotis', could not do otherwise, because the course of error was irresistibly marked out. The word צלע can only be composed of one root and of one sign, or of the two contracted roots. If it is the first, it is צל-ע, for לע, is not an Hebraic root; if it is the second, it is צל-עו, in neither case, the meaning is the same, for the root עה or עוה is only an extension of the sign Ayin.*

> *"According to this data, let us examine the ideas contained in the root צל. They are those of shadow, of an object extending above, and making shadow as a canopy, a curtain, a screen, hangings, roof, etc.*

> *"Now what is the meaning of the root עה? Is it not that which is attributed to all curving, all circumferential form, to all exterior superficies of things...?*

> *"Therefore the word צלע signifies exactly an envelope, an exterior covering, a protecting shelter. This is what the facultative צולע proves, to be enclosing, covering, enveloping: this is what is proved also by the word [xxx], by which the Samaritans have rendered it. This word which is derived form the root על, characterizes a thing raised to serve as covering, canopy, etc. The Chaldaic makes use of the word עלע, analogous to the Samaritan and having the same signification."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.88-89]

### [??perenes??](/keys/PRNS) - פרנס
> Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.648] uses these words and says Binah is thus called with respect to supernal works constituted beneath her and Malkuth with respect to the inferior copy [i.e. the Qlippoth] existing beneath it.

> xxx [beginning of text missing] ... the progeny of mind, which are thought-states which proceeded successively when the mind came forth in its perfection as the image of God. The mind was endowed with 'sparks' in the eternal fire, namely the reason and intuitive principles. The 'blessing' signifies the divine will operating through the human consciousness. The reference to the reason and intuition being 'Adamic' implies that the intellect is supreme over the intuition first of all." [IBID pp.24-25]
