## 395 - Three Hundred Ninety-Five
> 5x79.

---

### [Neshamah](/keys/NShMH) - נשמה
> Breath, the Divine Soul seated in Binah, whose essential power is intuition. Neshamah has for its basic meaning "breathing" and is so used in [Genesis 7:22](http://biblehub.com/genesis/7-22.htm) and in [1 Kings 17:17](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/17-17.htm) It is that aspect of the Life Breath, of the element of air which manifests itself as intuition. In Yetzirah this intuition or Causal Intelligence expresses itself as the understanding we have spoken of which is gained through experience and pain. We must not forget that it is through feeling the pain of our misinterpretations of the true nature of the One Life that we are finally led to liberation. Its spiritual truth and guidance is represented by [Key 5](5), the Hierophant. see [385](385), [67](67). It is the superconscious reason above all material limitations. It is the soul, which according to Qabalists, cannot sin; and its purity is never touched by the defilement of lower personality. see [405](405). *[Gematria PFC]*

> [Genesis 7:22](http://biblehub.com/genesis/7-22.htm) *"Everything in whose nostrils was the breath of life, of all that was on dry land died."*

> [1 Kings 17:17](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/17-17.htm) *"And it came to pass after these things that the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, fell sick; and his sickness was so sore that there was no breath left in him."*

> Also [Psalm 18:15](http://biblehub.com/psalms/18-15.htm) *"Then the brooks appeared, and the foundations of the world were laid open at thy rebuke, O Lord, at the blast of the breath of thine anger."*

> And [Job 32:8](http://biblehub.com/job/32-8.htm) *"Truly, there is a spirit in men, and the breath of the Almighty gives them understanding."*

> Also [Proverbs 20:27](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/20-27.htm) *"The sould of a man is the lamp of the Lord, searching all the inward parts of the heart."*

See also [Neshemath](790).

---

### [Ha-Shamaim](/keys/HShMIM) - השמים
> The heavens [Genesis 1:1](http://biblehub.com//.htm) and [Psalm 19:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/19-1.htm). The archetypal plane of causes (Atziluth), the causal Intelligence of Kether (see [430](430)). The power of the abstract mind is the power of the divine soul, Neshamah. The "order of nature" is the only kingdom of heaven. The fire that overthrows our houses of delusions and separateness is the flash of inspiration coming down into our personal lives from the divine soul (see [786](786)). The lightning flash of inspiration may be compared to the paths of the letters Cheth and mem descending from the "heavens" of Binah. Through the path of Cheth the holy influence is reflected in the sphere of Mars and then, through the path of Mem it energizes the sphere of Mercury. Intuition is the operation, at the personal level, of the Causal intelligence which established the cosmic order. See [Key 7](7), [Key 12](12), [390](390), [859](859), [955](955), [1356](1356), [1499](1499). *[Gematria PFC]*

---

### [Ha-Shahmen](/keys/H.ShMN) - ה שמן
> The oil, the ointment [Psalm 133:2](http://biblehub.com/psalms/133-2.htm). The esoteric meaning of oil relates to the influence of the illuminating. It is akin to the Sattva Guna of the Yogis and the "Illumination material" of the alchemists. Thus the influence from Neshamah is an actual substance. Ha-Shahmen have the same letters as Neshamah and in the Jewish translation of [Psalm 133:2](http://biblehub.com/psalms/133-2.htm), it is rendered "like a precious oil," [Ka-Shahmen Hatoub](/keys/KShMN.HThVB) **כשמן התוב**. See ([823](823)). The esoteric meaning of this "oil" relates it to the influence of [Mezla](78) **מזלא**, which descends through the 32 paths. As oil it is illuminating material. See [390](390), [1045](1045), [78](78), [660](660).

---

### [Tribe of Manasseh](/keys/MNShH) - מנשה
> "causing to forget." Aquarius. He who causes forgetfulness of native country. Name of the half-tribe of Israel attributed to Aquarius. The forgotten "native country" is the state of ignorance into which we are born. Connected with alchemical dissolution or solution, the 11th stage of the Great Work. Also attributed to [Tzaddi](/keys/Tz). Alchemical solution is the cause of congelation-it is the process which reduces all solid bodies in man's experience into their elemental "water," through meditation. the alchemist perceives the true fludic substance of forms reported by his physical sense. He uses the knowledge that the substance may be molded by mental imagery to alter his own body. Success in meditation established a current of subtle energy between the Mercury center in the upper brain, and the Sun center near the heart. Alchemical dissolution lifts up energy stored in subconscious reservoirs into the field of conscious awareness. It affects physical and subtle changes-in the metaphysical sensorium-to make the personality a better vehicle of expression for the Life-power. see [7](7), [95](95), [30](30), [162](162), [570](570), [500](500), [54](54), [331](331), [830](830), [127](127), [44](44).

---

### [Abir Jacob](/keys/ABIR.IOQB) - אביר יעקב
> Mighty one of Jacob. [Genesis 49:24](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-24.htm): "But his bow remained steady, his strong arms stayed, limber, because of the hand ofthe Mighty One Jacob, because of the hand Shepherd, the Rock of Israel." [Isaiah 60:16](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/60-16.htm): *"And thou shall know that I the Lord an thy savior and thy redeemer, the mighty one of Jacob."* Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.13] gives: robustus Jacob and says it is connected with עד, time [#[74](74)] and cites [Job 39:29](http://biblehub.com/job/39-29.htm).

---

### [Isaiah](/keys/IShOIH) - ישעיה
> Salvation of Yah. This means qabalistically, the salvation of wisdom. the Zohar says: *"Isaiah's very name is the cause of future redemption and the return of the supernal light to its place, and the restoration of the temple and all the splendor and glory thereof."* The temple which is restored is the temple of human personality.

---

### [mishneh](/keys/MShNH) - משנה
> Twice, second in line; second in rank; second quarter, copy duplicate, repetition (masculine noun). As a feminine noun משנה: oral study, traditional law, a paragraph of the Mishnah. Also teacher, tutor. The one teacher grows the twice-born through oral study. see [866](866).

---

### [peshut](/keys/PShVT) - פשוט
> plain or literal sense; flat, level, simple, undressed, divested of clothes, simple [Sepher Yetzirah 1:8]. As a masculine noun: Judge. see [602](602), [554](554), [737](737), [159](159), [559](559).

---

### [shopet](/keys/ShVPT) - שופט
> judge. The judge of the law is Manasseh, bring the heavenly breath into the "oil" through "Isaiah".

---

### [shemonah](/keys/ShMNH) - שמנה
> eight (8). Connects with [ha-shamaim](/keys/HShMIM), the heavens (all the stars in [Key 17](/keys/Tz), Aquarius have 8 rays); through the notion of beginning, connects with esoteric doctrine of the octave. The divine influence which flows down to the conscious mind is effected by a vibratory correlation related to the octave of music. see Mezla, [78](78).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"שמנה eight. This word springs from the double root שום and מון. By the first שום, is understood the action of placing, of putting one thing upon another; by the second מון that of specifying, of distinguishing by forms. It is therefore, the accumulation of forms that should be understood by this number. This signification is made obvious by that of the verb שמון, which means literally, to fatten, to make larger."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp.153-154] For other numerals see [13](13), [400](400), [636](636), [273](273), [348](348), [600](600), [372](372), [770](770), [570](570), [441](441).

> Of the root שום he adds: *"Action of... arranging one upon the other, in layers, as an onion."*

> *"Of the root מון he says: "image, representation, figure... מן this root, composed of the sign of exterior and passive actions, united by contraction to the root אן, symbol of the sphere of activity and of the circumscriptive extent of being, characterizes all specification, all classification by exterior forms; all figuration, determination, definition, qualification.*

> *"The Arabic [word] has not followed the same development as the Hebrew, although they have come from an identical root in the two idioms, as is proved by the usage of this root as designative relation represented by of, from etc. As noun the Arabic root [Arabic word] designates a thing emanated from another, a gift; as verb, to give, to distribute, that which is weakened to reinforce, impoverished to enrich, etc.*

> *"מן the kind of things, their exterior figure, mein, image, that is conceived; the idea that is formed, the definition that is given to it; their proper measure, number, quota."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.391]

---

### See Also

- [17](17)
- [8](8)
