## 396 - Three Hundred Ninety-Six
> (4x9x11)

---

### [al-haretz](OL-HARTz) - על־הארץ
Upon the earth. [Genesis 1:11](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-11.htm): *"And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is in itself, upon the earth: and it was so."*

---

### [mevshekal](/keys/MVShKL) - מושכל
> Intellectual (Aramaic). Muskal - idea, concept (modern Hebrew).

---

### [Yaphosh](/keys/IPVSh) - יפוש
> Day demon of 1st decanate of Scorpio. This decanate has rulership of Mars and suggest conscious imbalance, resulting in negative aspect of qualities: positive, forceful, energetic, i.e. positive of opinions, lovers of argument, forceful in expression of ideas and energetic in execution of plans. The 1st decanate of Scorpio is connected with the 5 of Cups or Geburah, sphere of Mars in Briah, the creative world. In Briah, the Geburah force expresses in its aspect of dissolution, destruction and change. It symbolizes the need for death of erroneous forms of desire and creativity. The false sense of personal will, personal volition, personal autonomy and personal self-action must be utterly destroyed. Rash and foolish activities are the root of sorrows and disappointments. The fundamental activity of Mars is stimulation of desire must be rightly directed. Otherwise, the results are loss in pleasure, vain regret, disappointment, loss of desired things, treachery, deceit, unexpected troubles and anxieties, broken engagements and friendships.

---

### See Also:

- [18](18)
- [9](9)
