## 406 - Four Hundred Six
> (2x7x29). Σ[28](28)

---

### [Letter name Tav](/keys/ThV) - תו
> mark, cross, signature, sign.

> *"And see here that in [Tav](/keys/ThV), תו, the powers of Saturn and Venus are combined. Yet Vav is also the special letter of Tiphareth. Now do you see why the Stone of the Wise changes lead into gold? That is, Saturn into Sun? Not Saturn into Mercury, as many fools imagine. Thus the alchemists say there are two stages at the end of their process, the White Work and the Red. White for the Moon, and Red for the Sun.*

> *"Now, the Sphere of the Moon is Yesod, and the Sphere of the Sun is Tiphareth. The White Work transmutes the leaden Guph into the Purified Intelligence of Yesod, for it shows the alchemist what is the real basis of his personal life. Then the final stage of the work takes him through his true support up into Tiphareth, where the Red Work is completed in the making of the transmuting Stone, אבן, [ehben](/keys/ABN).*

> *"Sol in action is red, and red is the color of Mars. Thus the completion of the Great Work is in the heart, not in the head. Mercury aids, and, in a sense, Mercury is one name for the Prima Materia, but the Work is the work of the Sun and Moon, and its objectives are to do with Yesod and Tiphareth.*

> *"Saturn is the beginning, but the point of departure is Guph. Thus one of the primary doctrines is that of the Microcosm, and not until one understands this, and the real meaning of Malkuth, can one begin the work.*

> *"This, we repeat, starts with Saturn, and then passes upward through Yesod to Samekh, or the fire-trial of Jupiter. Thus, in Rota, you see the lightning, the Jupiter fire, on the Key which illuminates the meaning of Peh, or Mars.*

> *"Avoid confusion by remembering always that there is but a single power, as The Emerald Tablet says. It is because of this that there is such a kaleidoscopic shifting of meanings within meanings.*

> *"All come from One, and go back into One, as the Rosicrucian phrase says, over and over again. But be warned. Do not be satisfied with words, nor hoard them, magpie-fashion. We are giving you this to use. Make sure of our meaning, and then test. There is no other way to arrive at certitude."* [11th Communication]

> *"She however is pregnant with the descending influence from Kether through the Path of Beth, and impregnated also with the influence of Chokmah through the Path of Daleth, each of which letters ends with Tav, and so focuses attention on conjunction, because the word Tav ends with V, the grammatical symbol of conjunction, and also because the ancient character for Tav was the joining of two lines to form a cross like that on the breast of the High Priestess. The horizontal line feminine, and the vertical masculine."* [33rd Communication]

---

###[Th/V](/keys/Th.V) - ת ו
> Saturn in Taurus.

---

### [ahtah or attah](/keys/AThH) - אתה
> Thou; you (singular), to thee. Refers to the central reality of Tav, the Self or I AM. Since the תו and אתה are equal, the numerical identity may be expressed by the sentence, "thou art the cross." He who grasps the meaning of this is in possession of a Key which unlocks all doors-above and below.

---

### [daath](/keys/DAATh) - דאאת
> knowledge. variant spelling. See [DOTh] 474.

---

### [upharsin](/keys/VPRSIN) - ופרסין
> divided. [Daniel 5:25](http://biblehub.com/daniel/5-25.htm). The quotation continues with an explanation: *"God has numbered thy kingdom and finished it... Thou art weighed in balances, and found wanting. Thy kingdom is divided."* This indicates an imbalance in the disposing intelligence, [Key 6](6).

---

### [kishshoof](/keys/KShVP) - כשוף
> magic. sorcery, witchcraft. That which unites us to Tav is magic, that which divides us is sorcery. see [1126](1126).

---

### [kishshawlon](/keys/KShLVN) - כשלון
> a fall. [Proverbs 16:18](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/16-18.htm).

---

### [am-ha-eretz](/keys/OM-HARTz) - עם הארץ
> people (man) of the earth, an ignoramus, a boor. Through conscious union of personality with the Administrative Intelligence of Tav, the "Man of Earth" is transformed into a conscious vehicle of the creative power. The name given by the Pharisees and Sadducees to the "common people" who were the ones, the gospel says, who heard Jesus gladly.

---

### [shoke](/keys/ShVQ) - שוק
> to join closely, to flow, to run; the leg or lower thigh (of man or beast), street, market place, shoulder; one of the equal sides of an isosceles triangle. The meaning "way" or "street" agrees with one meaning of the letter name Tav, Crossroads.

> As a verb, שוק, [shook](/keys/ShVQ), to run, to flow, to overflow, to cling to, figuratively, to desire. As a noun: street; marketplace, market, desire, longing.

---

### [shanaim](/keys/ShNVIM) - שנוים
> repetitions, changes, transformations, alteration. The first word of a certain occult ritual has to do with the transformation of the "man of earth" into a conscious vehicle of the creative power, through conscious union of personality with the Administrative Intelligence associated with Tav and symbolized by [Key 21](21).

---

### [Roeh-tsone](/keys/ROH.TzAN) - רעה צאן
> a shepherd of flocks. [Genesis 4:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/4-2.htm): *"And Abel was a keeper of sheep"* see [280](280).

---

### See Also:

- [10](10)


