## 412 - Four Hundred Twelve
> (4x103)

### [Letter name Beth](/keys/BITh) - בית
> House. The house of personality. Made be read be-yath, the accusative or objective case. Thus it is mental concentration directed toward some specific object, that is, receptivity to the Life-power in Kether via the intuitional and form building of Binah. see [567](567), [490](490), [78](78), [8](8), [2080](2080).

> *"Binah dependeth from Beth, and thus is the name בית completed by a letter of Shabbathai, for truly among men is the Mother the completion of the house, and so is it also in the deeper things of Ruach Elohim. The Path of Beth is truly the path of the Beginning, for in the Path of Aleph, nothing beginneth, nor is there any true beginning even in Chokmah; for what is Chokmah but the mirror of Kether, which hath neither beginning nor end? Thus is Aleph also the token of Ruach which is likewise without beginning or end. But in בית see Beth the initial of בראשית [Bereshith](/keys/BRAShITh) and of Baruch, which is Blessing. Then in בית comes Yod as the second letter, and this stands for the Paternal Wisdom which is before all beginning. Finally cometh Tav, the letter of Saturn, which completes the tale of 22 Tokens. And thus read, if you have eyes to see, that in any beginning, the completion is already present. For the ONE knoweth naught of time as men reckon it, and for AL Shaddai, the beginning of any outpouring is one with its completion. Thus may you come to understand that the Sabbath of the Eternal never ends."* [32nd Communication]. see [713](713), [52](52), [61](61), [400](400). 

### [VAThH](/keys/ve-attah) - ואתה
> "and thou." This indicated the true "house" (בית) of spirit as the central point of personality (see [406](406)).

> ואתה contains a reference to the supernal world, indicating that the Shekinah is joined "with Moses". This is the union of the sun with the Moon, "in all-embracing completeness." In [Psalm 20:20](http://biblehub.com/psalms/20-20.htm): *"And thou, O Lord (ואתה יהוה),"* the two invocations are, in effect one. That is אתה and יהוה are designations of a single reality.

### [khadath](/keys/ChDTh) - חדת
> new, fresh, young (Aramaic). [Ezra 6:4](http://biblehub.com/ezra/6-4.htm): *"With three rows of great stones, and a row of new timber."* see [312](312).

### [yebaqqaesh](/keys/IBQSh) - יבקש
> will seek out. [Ecclesiastes 3:15](http://biblehub.com/ecclesiastes/3-15.htm): *"That which has been is now; and that which is to be has already been, and God requires that which is past."* Translated "requires". "Will seek out" is precisely the essential idea represented in Tarot by the Magician, Key 1. From BQSh: to seek, find.

### [tzehmer lahban](/keys/TzMR.LBN) - צמר לבן
> white wool. Has an occult connection with the white head, a title of Kether. Also with the white hair of the figure described in [Revelation 1:14](http://biblehub.com/revelation/1-14.htm): *"His head and his hairs were white like wool and white as snow; and his eyes were as a flame of fire."* The idea is that the influence at work in Path 12 (Beth) is a direct emanation form Kether.

### [Rom Eleyon](/keys/RVM.OLIVN) - רום עליון
> Height most high, supernal height. A title of Kether. see [620](620).

### [shemen ha-tobe](/keys/ShMN.HTVB) - שמן הטוב
> Precious oil (or ointment). This passage from [Psalm 133:2](http://biblehub.com/psalms/133-2.htm) is familiar to Freemasons, and a perusal of the Psalm will make the inner meaning clear. see [407](407), [432](432), [343](343), [667](667).

### [tavoh, ta'avah](/keys/ThAVH) - תאוה
> longing, desire, wish, the object wished or longed for; appetite, passion; boundary limit; in the Mishnaic, sexual desire. What is desired indicates the definite objective of desire, hence a bound or limit. This is the specific quality associated with the 7th path. It has the limiting characteristic of Saturn (Tav). The mental activity of the 12th path actually sets limits, selects objectives and established bounds.

### [PD, B, RC, GG, IO, IA, GV](/keys/PD-B-RK-GG-IO-IA-GV) - פד ב רך גג יע יא גו
> The Hebrew values of the names of the seven fratres who were associated with C.R. in establishing the order. The Latin letters and values are: G.V. = [9](9), I.A. = [11](11), I.O. = [80](80), G.G. = [6](6), R.K. = [220](220), B = [2](2), P.D. = [84](84), total is 412. [If one adds the units column, the total is 22. If one adds the figures in the tens column, but does not carry over the 2 from the units column, the total is 19. And the hundreds column, the total without carrying over is 2.] These seven fratres are the "house" of the order. They execute the desires of the founder. They typify precisely the relationship which is designated in Psalm 133 as being like שמן הטוב, the precious ointment.