## 414 - Four Hundred Fourteen
2x9x23. The proportion of the lines in a regular heptagram (4/1/4). [See True And Invisible (Weiser), p. 114].

---

### [Ain Suph Aur](/keys/AIN.SVP.AVR) - אין סוף אור
> Limitless Light. The radiant darkness. Background of the Tree of Life. Three veils of the absolute. Prior to manifestation, the undifferentiated radiant energy whence all things proceed may be conceived as a limitless ocean of light. *[Gematria PFC]*

> *Representing the great ocean of potential energy which is concentrated, according to Qabalist, into the whirling motion which begins a cycle of manifestation with Kether, the crown. This every line of the great star [the heptagram].. would suggest this 'limitless light.' [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p.115]*

> The Golden Treatise of Hermes, IV says: "Behold, that which the philosophers have concealed is written with seven letters..." Paul Case: אין סוף אור though written with 9 letters requires only 7 different letters, viz. Aleph Air; Yod, Virgo; Nun Scorpio, Samekh Sagittarius; Vav Taurus; Peh Mars; Resh Sun.

---

### [Gadar Ain Suph](/keys/GDR.AIN.SVP) - גדר אין סוף
> Enclosure without limit.

---

### [Rabah Ain Suph](/keys/RBH.AIN.SVP) - רבה אין סוף
> Growth without limit.

---

### [Raz Ain Suph](/keys/RZ.AIN.SVP) - רז אין סוף
> Mystery without limit.

---

### [sehoq](/keys/ShChVQ) - שחוק
> Mirth, laughing, derision, sport, play. Attributed to the letter Ayin. Equivalent in meaning to the Hindu lila [leela: "play of the gods or cosmic play"] of Brahm. God creates, as do all artist, from the exuberance of inner feeling - not only the pretty but also the ugly, not only heroes but also clowns, and he enjoys his cosmic play. see [1784](1784), [708](708), [358](358). *[Gematria PFC]*

---

### [Ani Jehovah Elohi Abraham Abika](/keys/ANI.IHVH.ALHI.ABRHM.ABIK) - אני יהוה אלהי אברהם אביך
> *I am the LORD, the God of Abraham thy father [Genesis 28:13](http://biblehub.com/genesis/28-13.htm).* The Limitless Light is the Creative God, the only God. "God is light, and in him there is no darkness." *[Gematria PFC]*

> This declaration occurs in the story of Jacob's dream of the ladder, and the ladder is understood by Qabalists to represent the Tree of Life or scheme of he ten sephiroth. *[True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p.115]*

---

### [Haguth](/keys/HGVTh) - הגות
> meditation, thought, musing, whispering. The Limitless Light, identical with the One Creative God, is an active vibration set up by a mental process. The power source of the universe is the meditation of the Universal Mind. *[Gematria PFC]*

---

### [Maqor Chaiim](/keys/MQVR.ChIIM) - מקור חיים
> fountain of life *[Psalm 36:9](http://biblehub.com/psalms/36-9.htm). "For with thee is the **fountain of life;** in thy light we shall see light."* The Limitless Light or the fountain of life is the fountain of eternal livingness from which are brought forth all individualized lives. see [974](974), [1114](1114) (Greek); [346](346), [419](419) *[Gematria PFC]*

> *[Proverbs 16:22](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/16-22.htm) "Understanding is a **fountain of life** to those who have it; but the instruction of fools is folly."*

---

### [Mashottim](/keys/MShVTTIM) - משוטטים
> goings forth. From the Limitless Light spring all appearances of "going forth," that is, of emanation. see [974](974), [770](770). *[Gematria PFC]*

---

### [Ayin Jehovah al-Yeraia](/keys/OIN.IHVH.ALIRAIV) - עין יהוה אליראיו
> *The eye of Jehovah is on them that fear him." [Psalm 33:18](http://biblehub.com/psalms/33-18.htm)*. King James translation. Ayin means "fountain, spring" as well as "eye." The preposition al may also be translated "near, within, for." Moreover, the verb translated "fear" actually signifies "to revere," "stand in awe." Thus a better rendering is: The Fountain of Reality (Jehovah, THAT which was, is and will be) is within them who revere that Reality. The intimate and constant availability of the Limitless Light is the Fountain of your life. see [1064](1064). *[Gematria PFC]*

The Vision of God belongs to those who revere Him.

---

### [Naashon](/keys/NChShVN) - נחשון.
> enchanter. *[Gematria PFC]*

> *[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nahshon): "In the Hebrew Bible, [Nahshon](/keys/NChShVN) (Hebrew: נַחְשׁוֹן‎ Naḥšōn) was a tribal leader of the Judahites during the wilderness wanderings of the Book of Numbers. In the King James Version, the name is spelled Naashon. According to a Jewish Midrash, he was the person who initiated the Hebrews' passage through the Red Sea, by walking in head-deep until the sea parted."*

---

### [Azoth](/keys/AZVTh) - אזות
> Azoth. Alchemical term for the first matter and the Quintessence. A and Z (Latin), Omega (Greek), and Tav (Hebrew). Initial and final in 3 languages.

---

### [yitad](/keys/IThD) - יתד
Tent-peg, nail. Used as a murder weapon in [Judges 4:21](http://biblehub.com/judges/4-21.htm): *"But Jael the wife of Heber took a tent peg, and took a hammer in her hand. Then she went softly to him and drove the peg into his temple until it went down into the ground while he was lying fast asleep from weariness. So he died."*

### See Also:

- [9](9)