### 419 - Four Hundred Nineteen
> (prime)

---

### [Letter name Teth](/keys/TITh) - טית
> Serpent, foliage. The unity is the strong serpent-power, the Lion of [Key 8](8) and the Fohat of Theosophy. In Thrice Greatest Hermes (page 89, note 2) it says that the serpent is the form of Hermes (Mercury) in the North. *"When we come to טית, the number of its name is 419, and this adds to 5. Yet 5 is also Daleth with the paternal Yod, as you may see in the character for Heh. Doors first, then windows, was the actual architectural development; and the sequence of the letters was originally determined by this fact. Moreover, 419 may be read as [400](400) and [19](19), and in this reading, 400 is [ת], and 19 is חוה [Chavvah](/keys/ChVH), the Mother, or Aima. And Teth is the link between Chesed and Geburah, just as Daleth is the link between Chokmah and Binah."* [11th Communication]. see [9](9), [409](409), [1502](1502), [434](434), [85](85).

> > *"Imagination sets man free from the restrictions of sense, yet fulfills sensation instead of diminishing or destroying it. Thus our Lady Venus in [Key 8](8), tames her lion, but does not run away from him or kill him.*

> > *So love linked with purified and perfected sulphur, which is what the lion symbolizes, is the secret of all spiritual works. The lesser creatures are driven by sense, and they have only glimmerings of love or imagination. Remember that the Red Lion in Alchemy is sulphur purified by knowledge of the office of passion in our lives; for passion purified becomes compassion, purged of the corrosive poison of selfish exclusiveness, and purged too of that limitation to the level of mere sensation, which is for the beasts good, but for man slavery.*

> > *Saturn, Mars and Jupiter among the Interior Stars are those we share with the sub-human kingdoms. They have their place and purpose, but in human life they must be directed by the upper triad of Venus, or imagination, Moon, or memory, and Mercury, or discrimination. In the Rota this is hinted at in many ways, but particularly by the white wand having two similar ends, so too the woman's taming a live lion. Here is a clue to the basis of many forms of magical working. Nothing which tells you to kill or atrophy the lower triad is true magic. These are the sources of all potency, and to deny them or flee them is to confess oneself unfit for the magical path in any of its forms. So take the conditions taken by the world-process aeons before your birth as Saturn. You cannot change their basic nature, nor do you need to attempt this impossible task.*

> > *What you can do is transmute them, or bring them across into the field of enlightened understanding. This in no wise changes the basic nature of the powers embodied in your surroundings. It is the alchemist who is the real subject of the Great Work, and even he does not change his basic nature. How can he since that basic nature is the changeless one? Yet a similitude may help you grasp this: In a single seed lie all the potencies of growth and flower and fruit. These potencies are unfolded as the plant grows, but they were there all the time. So in what has been called man's animal nature are potencies few dream of, and fewer still unfold; because their presence, not being apparent, must be divined by Mercurial insight and Venusian imagination, and thus follows the actual work of which [Key 8](8) is only one among thousands of glyphs."* [19th communication]. see [434](434), [400](400), [90](90).

> [beginning of text missing] *"...is something which demands unremitting vigilance, the exercises of great patience, and considerable ingenuity. To control the serpent power is no light thing. Nor is it enough to become conscious of the obscure sources of our complexes. New outlets for these tremendous forces of subconsciousness must be provided. We cannot afford to let them find expression in their raw, untrained forms. Nothing in the technique of modern psycho-analysis has yet approached the perfection of the alchemical and magical methods of the inner school. By these methods, of which Tarot study and Qabalah are important parts, the mighty forces of the libido may be tamed and transmuted. The accomplishment of this is truly called the great work, and it depends upon the law of consciousness which Qabalah calls 'the intelligence of the secret of all spiritual activities.'"* [Gematria of the Letter-names]

---

### [zero yabadenu](/keys/ZRO.IOBDNV) - זרע יעבדנו
> "a seed shall serve him". [Psalm 22:30](http://biblehub.com/psalms/22-30.htm): *"A seed shall serve him; it shall be accounted to the Lord for a generation."* Nun is the "seed". Translated "posterity he-willserve-them" in the Interlinear Bible. see [50](50), [106](106), [700](700), [277](277).


---

### [Ha-Ayin Soph Aur](/keys/HAIN.SVP.AVR) - האין סוף אור
> "The Limitless Light". See [414](414)

---

### [ha-mashottim](/keys/H-MShVTTIM) - ה־משוטטים
> "The going forth"

---

### [ha-azoth](/keys/HAZVTh) - האזות
> the first matter.

---

### [achedoth](/keys/AChDVTh) - אחדות
> unities, uniting. Refers to the [13th path](13) of [Gimel](/keys/G). It also means: "The one which is first and last." This, of course, is what is meant by "Alpha and Omega." Additionally: unity, harmony, solidarity; unanimity. see [424](424), [532](532), [108](108), [13](13).

---

### [achdothi](/keys/AChThI) - אחתי
> my sister [Song of Solomon 4:12](http://biblehub.com/songs/4-12.htm). *"A Garden enclosed is my sister, my bride."*

> The garden is אבן, [Ehben](/keys/ABN), the stone. The phrase is equivalent to [Job 28:2](http://biblehub.com/job/28-12.htm): *"copper is molten out of the stone."* see [53](53), [126](126), [661](661), [30](30), [216](216), [1496](1496).

---

### [Sodom Gomorrah](/keys/SDM.OMRH) - סדמ עמרה
> The 2 biblical cities destroyed by God for their perversity. see [104](104), [315](315).

---

### [meqor chokmah](/keys/MQVR.ChKMH) - מקור חכמה
> "the fountain of wisdom". [Proverbs 18:4](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/18-4.htm): *"The words of a man's mouth are like deep waters; and the fountain of wisdom like a flowing brook."* see [346](346), [73](73), [414](414).

---

## Greek

---

### [poiehmasi](/greek?word=poihmasi) (Gr) - ποιήμασι
> things made [Romans 1:20](http://biblehub.com/romans/1-20.htm). *"For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead; so that they are without excuse."* The manifested world.

---

### [tehn gehn](/greek?word=) (Gr) - τὴν γῆν
> "the earth". Septuagint translation of את־הארץ [eth ha-eretz](/keys/ATh-HARTz) (697) in [Genesis 1:28](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-28.htm) *"And God [Elohim] blessed them said unto them [humanity] 'be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the (essence of) earth."* see [697](697), [11](11) (Greek), [291](291), [401](401).

---

### [David](/greek?word=dauid) (Gr) - Δαυιδ
> Beloved. see [703](703) Greek, [14](14).

---

### [deipnos](/greek?word=deipnos) (Gr) - δειπνος
> a principal meal. [Omikron: Letters from Pavios, p.252]:

> > In the lexika it is quoted as the evening meal, and also as an after-dawn meal. the hermeneia of the word is said to be 'after which it is needful to labor'. Symbolic meals [as the last supper of Jesus and the 12 apostles] are universal. They usually connote a body of people, cooperating in a certain ideal: also their idealistic communion with an exalted being. Personal amendment, steady service, or the fulfillment of a vow are amongst the sequenda of the ceremony. A symbolic meal may be regarded in two aspects:

> > 1. as denoting help received by an approved pupil from exalted instruction and inspiration, friction; that is, euicaristia.

> > 2. as implying a consequent obligation to labor for the less advanced; that is, dei ponein.

---

### See Also:

- [14](14)
- [5](5)
