## 423 - Four Hundred Twenty-Three
> (9x47)

### [etzem ha-briah](/keys/OTzM.HBRIAH) - עצם הבריאה
> essence of creation, creative force. Refers to [Heh](/keys/H), the [15th Path](15). Signifies the essential nature of the paternal force, which is concentrated primarily in Kether, and then becomes the radiant life force in the Chokmah. The "essence of glory" is really the No-Thing which is the most abstract conception our minds can form concerning the nature of the ONE BEING which is the Rootless Root of all manifestation. This No-Thing is what finds expression as appearance (the eye), as the Three Supernals (the triangle), and as the radiant energy which is the substance of all things, and, at the same time, the gravitation or weight which holds together the world of name and form (the glory). Another arrangement may be read as HIH BRA or HIH, Hawyaw, "to be" and BRA, Beraw, "to create." The inner meaning here is that the essential characteristic of being is creativeness. see [203](203), [20](20).

### [Arika Danpin](/keys/AVRKA.DANPIN) - אורכא דאנפין
> Vast Countenance. A title of Kether, also called "Ancient of Days" and Ancient of the Ancient Ones." Represented in the Qabalah by a man's bearded face turned so as to show the left eye only, like the Emperor. [Note that under [422](422) the spelling of this name differs. The letter Daleth is here prefixed to ANPIN. In the Hebrew dictionary Daleth (Aramaic) prefixed has the meaning "of, which". the emperor faces North] see [426](426), [173](173).

### [tob attah](/keys/TVB-AThH) - טוב־אתה
> "thou art good" [Psalm 119:68](http://biblehub.com/psalms/119-68.htm): *"Thou art good, and does good; teach me thy statutes."*

### [tekheawh](/keys/ThChIH) - תחיה
> revival, resurrection. From the Hebrew dictionary "resurrection of the dead" תחיה המתים.. The "essence of creation" revives and resurrects. see [818](818), [1313](1313),

### [aoth hia](/keys/AVTh.HIA) - אות היא
> the feminine sign. Literal symbol of she; thus "sign she". [K.D.L.C.K. p.66] "And shekinah is called AVTh HIA the feminine sign." Shekinah is the divine presence assigned to Binah. see [67](67), [419](419).

> *"...The 20 pillars (of the court of the tabernacle) thereof and their 30 sockets shall be of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver. (11) And likewise for the north side in length their shall be hangings of 100 cubits long and 20 pillars and their sockets of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets in silver..."* Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.420] refers to this phrase in a long discussion of יה, [Jah](/keys/IH), and says that they join the mystery of Jah.

### See Also:

- [9](9)
