## 424 - Four Hundred Twenty-Four
> (8x53)

---

### [ha-achadoth](/keys/HAChDVTh) - האחדות
> The unities. One of the hidden meanings is *"The (ה) First (אחד, One) and (ו) the last (ת)."* Another is: *"The mother (ה as Binah) is first (אחד) and last (ת)."* Alpha and Omega (Greek). Affirmation of an underlying unity, veiled by the appearance of manifestation. see [108](108), [532](532), [419](419).

---

### [Chayoth](/keys/ChIVTh) - חיות
> Living Creatures.

Also: lively. [Exodus 1-19](http://biblehub.com/exodus/1-19.htm): *"And the midwives said unto Pharaoh, Because the Hebrew women are not as the Egyptian women; for they are lively, and are delivered ere the midwives come in unto them."*

---

### [tavtoth](/keys/TVTTh) - טוטת
> Lesser angel governing triplicity by night of Taurus. The moon is exalted in Taurus, and is expressed in Tarot by [Key 2](2) ([Gimel](/keys/G)).

---

### [tohu bohu](/keys/ThHV.BHV) - תהו בהו
formless void.

> without form (and) void. [Genesis 1:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-2.htm).

> *"An alchemical reference of black-the absence of all color-which marks the limit of the first solution of our body, and the point where it is reduced to chaos."* [D.D. Bryant, Philosopher's Stone].

> Paul Case comments that 424 contains Saturn ([400](400)) Jupiter ([20](20)) and Venus ([4](4)). see [430](430), [13](13). He also says *"compare the Fools black outer garment in the Tarot". (424 = 10 = 1 = Aleph = Ruach, according to the Sepher Yetzirah, and this is the letter assigned to the Fool in the Tarot, whose number is zero, the numerical symbol of tohu-bohu, 'emptiness of emptiness'). But we know what a novice would never in the world suspect that the blackness is only a veil hiding the most dazzling whiteness."* [D.D. Bryant]

---

### See Also:

- [10](10)
