## 426 - Four Hundred Twenty-Six
> (2x3x71)

---

### [Arik Danpin](/keys/ARIK.DANPIN) - אריך דאנפין
> The Vast Countenance. a title of Kether. (see [423](423)). Daleth here is used as a preposition, Aramaic in origin, meaning "of, which." The union of the Hexagram and Hexagon symbolizes the union of Tiphareth with Kether. It is the conjunction of the Personal ego with Yechidah, the Indivisible Self. see [422](422), [423](423), [620](620).

---

### [moshyiah](/keys/MVShIO) - מושיע
> Savior, deliverer; deliverance. A title of Tiphareth. A noun from the participle of a Hebrew verb meaning "to set free," the same root of Hoshua and Jesus. The son (Tiphareth) manifest himself as the deliverer when he set the bride (Shekinah in Malkuth) free. The Liberation is effected by right knowledge of the true nature of man. see [385](385), [326](326), [358](358). Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.517] gives: servator, salvator.

---

### [tavek](/keys/ThVK) - תוך
> Middle, center, midst. Like the Greek κέντρον (kentron, the point around which a circle is described), this Hebrew noun is from a root meaning to pierce, as with an arrow point [The primary meaning of κέντρον is: a point, prickle, spike, sting; a horse or ox-goad]. In the Zohar תוך is referred to the 6th sephirah under the aspect associated with the Patriarch Jacob (to supplant, to take the place of). Transformed into Israel (He shall rule as God) by the enlightened ego he is able to put new and better conditions in place of former ones. Jacob is associated with Tiphareth, because the Ego is truly the supplanter, and in two ways. By itself, and unaware of its relation to the higher powers, the ego is the conniving, crafty Jacob, full of guile and deceit. Then the ego puts itself in place of God, and even when it begins to learn there is something higher than itself, makes various attempts to force divine compliance with its person wishes and ambitions. Finally, it wrestles with the angel or the divine presence. The struggle continues through the night of Jacob's ignorance, and the angle comes in the form of a man, because the whole problem has to do with the ego's idea of what man really is. Toward dawn it is the angel who wins the wrestling match, that is, a higher conception of man overcomes the notion of personal Jacob. see [6](6), [400](400), [406](406), [182](182).

> also: תוך tivek. to divide in the middle; to meditate, act as middleman. see [906](906).

> Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.730] calls this word medium and says it refers to Tiphareth, because this grade is the midst of Gedulah and Geburah.

---

### [Beth-David](/keys/BITh-DVD) - בית־דוד
House of David. [Isaiah 22:22](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/22-22.htm): *"And the key of the house of David will I lay upon his shoulder; so he shall open, and none shall shut; and he shall shut, and none shall open."* See [528](528).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [sperma](/greek?word=sperma) (Gr)
> That which is sown, seed, the seed of germ of anything; of animals, seed (Latin, semen). As a metaphor, seed, offspring, issue, origin, descent, family. see [720](720) Greek, [50](50), [64](64)

---

### [hermatos](/greek?word=hermatos) (Gr)
> of, or from Hermes. Variant spelling. see [353](353).

---

### [ampelos](/greek?word=ampelos) (Gr)
> a vine. Christ is the vine, i.e. the real, of which his disciples are the branches. This figure of speech expresses the closest union and communication. In [John 15:5](http://biblehub.com/john/15-5.htm): (4) *"Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, it abide not in the vine, so neither can you, unless you abide in me. (5) I am the vine, you are the branches. he who abides in me, and I in him, he bears much fruit; because severed from me you can do nothing."* see [434](434), [2663](2663).

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)


