428 (4x107)
ChShMLIM Chasmalim. Merciful or Benefit Ones. Scintillating
Flames. Choir of Angels associated with Chesed, and thus
particularly with its expression in Yetzirah. see 378, 282.
Order of angels equated with the Dominations, ranked with the
Cherubim and Seraphim, headed by Chashmal or Tzadquiel. In the
Qabalah the Chasmalim belong to the Yetziratic world, the world
of foundation (or formation), the abode of the angels presided
over by the angel Metatron [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels,
p.???] see 375.
ABN-ChN HShChD aben khan ha shakhud. A gift is a precious stone.
A precious stone, the Gift (in the eyes of him that hath it;
Whatsoever he turneth, he prospers [Proverbs 17:8]. Also: "The
gift, the stone of the secret wisdom (Qabalah)." These quotes tie
in with Chesed, Mercy, beneficence, as the source of eternal,
unending supply. This supply is rooted in "recovery" or
remembering of true place in the scheme of things. It is the gift
of the sacred wisdom, the gift of unending, eternal riches and
the fulfillment of every need. The secret wisdom is based on
Man's conscious union with the ONE, which is the renovating or
renewing stone, which is engraved with a new name, and which
makes all things new (ChDSh). see 111, 312, 271 (ROA), 53.
ChIDVTh hidoth. hard questions. [1 Kings 10:1] "and when the
Queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon concerning the name
of the Lord, she came to prove hi with hard questions." The Queen
of Sheba (372) is connected with Venus and the 7 alchemical
metals; Solomon is linked to the Sun or Tiphareth-the higher
self, the "nature of the Lord" is the creative word. see 26.
From: ChIDH riddle, puzzle]. see 375.
VIITzR IHVH ALHIM vayi-yetzer IHVH Elohim. and IHVH Elohim
formed. [Genesis 2:7] "and the Lord God formed man of the dust of
the Ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life;
and man became a living soul." see 86, 26, 315, 50, 350, 45, 18.
MNI-ChShK minni-khiskek. out of darkness. [Job 12:12] "He
discovered deep things out of darkness, and brings out of light
the shadow of death." see 1285, 1044.
ThV-HH-VV Tav-Heh-Vav. The letter name for tohu, meaning "without
form." [Genesis 1:2] "And the earth was without form, and void;
and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the spirit of God
moved upon the face of the waters." see 411, 328.
ABN ShLMH ehben shelemah. a perfect weight (stone). [Deuteronomy
25:15] "But thou shall have a perfect and just weight, a perfect
and just measure thou shall have, that thy days may be lengthened
in the land which the Lord thy God gives thee." Note that ShLMH
spells Solomon. see 628.
BThVK betok. in the midst, in the middle. [Genesis 1:6] "And God
said, let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and
let it divide the waters from the waters." see 380, 382, 405.
GOShKLH gashikalh. the breaker of pieces. Qlippoth of Chesed.
GOSh: shaking, quaking, KLH: complete destruction.