## 430 - Four Hundred Thirty
> 2x5x43.

---

### [tohu va-bohu](/keys/ThHV.VBHV) - תהו ובהו
> without form and void. [Genesis 1:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-2.htm). A description of earth, or "That which is below" in the Biblical creation allegory. The mental image suggested is that of a vast abyss of fluid darkness. ([More >>](tohu-vabohu)).

---

### [Nephesh](/keys/NPSh) - נפש
> Breath. The field of subconscious mental activity, the animal soul, the Vital Soul in Yesod, is the animating principle shared by man with the kingdoms of life below the human level (see [Nephesh Chai](448)). It builds for the manifestation of the potencies of the Life-power, via the reproductive process, an ascending scale of bodies, culminating in the production of human organism. see [80](80), [570](570), [220](220).

> Nun in **נפש** represents Scorpio, which governs the reproductive organs of Humanity. Peh represents the Mars force. Shin stands for spiritual Fire. By understanding the secret of Nephesh and through desire flowing from the Ego in Tiphareth man may consciously further his own evolution and enter the 5th Kingdom. *[Gematria PFC]* 

> *"...above Tav on the Tree standeth the Foundation, the seat of נפש, Nephesh, and Nephesh signifieth the eternal utterance of the creative speech. For see, its first letter is [Nun](/keys/N), which denoteth perpetuity, and its second letter is [Peh](/keys/P), the sign of the mouth, which the third letter is [Shin](/keys/Sh), the sign of the Holy Spirit. Yet see that in all three letters is one power expressed; for in Nun is the seed-power of Madim (Mars), and Peh is the special letter of Madim, and in Shin, the final letter of its name (שין) is N, with which נפש beginneth."* [9th Communication] see [89](89), [463](463).

> *"Throughout eternity, with no cessation does the utterance of the Ruach Elohim the might of El Shaddai the source of Life; and the Living Soul Nephesh is the vehicle of that utterance. Even so may you see it in the letters of Nephesh, for the first relateth to Perpetuity, and the second to Utterance, while the third standeth in the alphabet for Ruach Elohim the Fiery Breath of the Eternal Spirit of Life. To this the name Shaddai El Chai refereth; for the Nephesh, or the Vital Soul is that same Almighty Everliving One, which centers Itself in all animate forms, and finds its highest expression in the life of man."* [27th Communication]. see [363](363), [23](23), [207](207).

---

### [Shekel](/keys/ShQL) - שקל
A Hebrew unit of weight equal to about half an ounce; the chielf silver coin of the ancient Hebrews. *slang* a coin.

---

### [Sepher Mem](/keys/SPR.MIM) - ספר מים
> Book of Moses. The Rosicrucian "Book M", also called [Ars Notaria](104), the "Art of Signatures". To read which the [Lux Mundi](104) or "light of the world" in necessary. The illuminati are recipients, through intuition of the perfect understanding of the meaning of the cosmic order, and can read the "One, only book" from which all secrets are to be learned. see [104](104), [990](990) *[Gematria PFC]*

---

### [Tav/Lamed](/keys/Th.L) - ת ל
> Saturn in Libra.

---

### [masaparim](/keys/MSPRIM) - מספרים
> declare, are telling (verb). *"The heavens declare the Glory of God."* [Psalm 19:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/19-1.htm). see [395](395), [510](510).

> In the American Translation it is rendered: "are telling." The Zohar [Prologue 8a] says the "heavens" are the bridegroom, who enters the bridal canopy. Declare, signifies that they radiate a brilliance like that of a sapphire... and scintillating from one end of the world to the other. "The heavens declare the Glory of God" as soon as the Bride (10) beholds her spouse (6).

---

### [miqqedem mimay olahm](/keys/MQDM.MIMI.OVLM) - מקדם מימי עולם
> From of old, from everlasting. [Micah 5:2](http://biblehub.com/micah/5-2.htm): *"But thou, Bethlehem Ephratah, though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that is to be ruler. In Israel; whose goings forth have been from of old, from everlasting."* see [1176](1176).

---

### [nahshaf](/keys/NShP) - נשף
> to blow, to breathe. [Exodus 15:10](http://biblehub.com/exodus/15-10.htm): *"Thou did blow with thy wind, the sea covered them: they sank as lead in the mighty waters."*

> [Isaiah 40:24](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/40-24.htm): *"Yea, they shall not be planted; yea, they shall not be sown: yea, their stock shall not take root in the earth and he shall also blow upon them, and they shall wither, and the whirlwind shall take them away as stubble."* This connects with the attribution of the element of Air to Yesod.

---

### [nehsheph](/keys/NShP) - נשף
> Evening twilight, evening; darkness, night; morning twilight, dawn, mist.

---

### [phereqim](/keys/PRQIM) - פרקים
> joints, parts, members. The appearances of the separation. see [990](990).

---

### [tzadiq yesod olahm](/keys/TzDIQ.ISVD.OVLM) - צדיק יסוד עולם
> righteousness is the foundation of the world. [Proverbs 10:25](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/10-25.htm): *"As the whirlwind passes, so is the wicked no more: but the righteousness is an everlasting foundation."*

> The full title of Yesod. Sometimes translated wrongly as: The righteous man is the foundation of the world. As the sphere of the righteous ones [Chasidim] is in Chesed, this illustrates the occult correspondence between Jupiter (Chesed) and the Moon (Yesod). see [204](204).

---

### [tael](/keys/ThL) - תל
> Mound, heap, a hill, lock, curl. The hill of vision which "declares" the everlasting truth of the soul's nature. see [830](830).

---

### [shafan](/keys/ShPN) - 
> a treasure; to conceal; concealed.

> [Deuteronomy 33:19](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/33-19.htm): *"They shall call the people unto the mountain; there they shall offer sacrifices of righteousness: for they shall suck the abundance of the seas, and of treasures hid in the sand."* It is rendered שפני [sephuni](/keys/ShPVNI) and translated "hidden treasures of the sand."

> also [sawfoon](/keys/ShPVN), [435](435): hidden, concealed. see [599](599).

---

### [rezon ben-elada](/keys/RZVN.BN-ALIDO) - רזון בן־אלידע
> Rezon, the son of Eliada. [I Kings 11:23](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/11-23.htm): *"And [God](/keys/ALHIM) (אלהים) raised up another adversary unto him, Rezon, the son of Eliada."* Eliada signifies "God knows" in the passage cited, Rezon was the adversary of Pharaoh, the symbol of worldly materialism.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Demon](/latin?word=demon) (Lt) + [Assiah](/keys/OShIH) - 45 + 385 (עשיה) 
> The demon of the manifested world. 

---

### [arithmos](/greek?word=arithmos) (Gr)- αριθμος
> number. In a sense, all of our finite numbers are synthesized by 9. Also: amount, size, number as a mark of worth, rank.

---

### [monos](/greek?word=monos) (Gr) - μονος
> one, alone. Alone of many.

---

### [nomos, nomus](/greek?word=nomos) (Gr) - νομος
> law. In the Septuagint of [Proverbs 13:14](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/13-14.htm): *"The law of the wise is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death."*

> James Pryse says it means *"That which is assigned or apportioned; custom, conventionism; law, ordinance. The mosaic law consists of ritualistic observances based upon the action of the forces ruling the material world. It is the law of cause and effect inherent in the elements (or, rather, the spirits of the element) that keeps the soul in bondage in the world of matter, and holds it within the cycle of reincarnation, the mind being attached to the objects of the sense and to the results of actions, from this bondage the soul can become free only by purification and the acceptance of the 'free gift' of the Logos, when it is re-born in the divine essence and becomes 'the son of a God'. Thus Paulos says in [Galatians 4:3-8](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=galatians%204%3A3-8&version=WEB):* "We also, when we were youngsters, were enslaved under the elemental sprits of the cosmos. But when the fullness of the time came the God sent forth his son, born from a woman, born under law, that he might ransom those under law, so that we might regain the sonship, and because you are sons 'he sent forth the breath of his son into our hearts, loudly calling Abba, father! So that you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, also an heir of a God; but at that time indeed, not perceiving a God, you were enslaved by those who by origin are not Gods.'"* [The Magica Message According to Iôannês p. 79]

---

### See Also:

- [7](7)