## 434 - Four Hundred Thirty-Four
2x7x31

---

### [Daleth](/keys/DLTh) - דלת
> Daleth, Letter-name. Door (the leaf, not the opening); page. See [601](601), [The Fourteenth Path](14).

> > *Now observe that 4 is the number of Daleth, as well as of Chesed, and the path of Daleth is the first one to cross the Gtree. Now, this letter is also DLTh, or 434, which reduced through 11 to 2. Likewise, Chokmah, which in Hebrew is 73, as is the value of the letter-name Gimel, GML. Yet 2, as a letter, is Beth, so that the value of Beth relates to Chokmah. In the Rota this is evident, for is not the Magician a personification of Wisdom, and is he not also a potential father, that is, Ab? Again, 4 is 2 multiplied by itself, and thus Daleth is the multiplication of Beth by Beth, and also the multiplication of Chokmah by itself is Chesed.*

> > *Now: in Daleth are the letters of Venus, Libra and Saturn; that is, nothing but the powers of Venus and Saturn. Daleth itself is Venus, but her path ends in the Sphere of Saturn, from which the path of Lamed receives an influx throuh th epaths of Cheth and Geburah. In the Rota, Empress, Strength, Justice and the World are but various aspects and manifestations of Daleth, as you can see, and so is the Star, wher ethe ruling power is Sturn. Again BINH is [67](67), and the seed of 67 is also [4](4), or [Daleth](/keys/D).*

> > *...mark well also the close relation between Saturn and Venus. Here are the keys to proctical knowledge of utmost importance. All this is on the Middle Pillar, and if you do but consider the Sephiroth thereon, and their meanings, you should have little difficulty.*

> [11th Communication]. see [419](419), [85](85), [120](120), [228](228), [406](406), [400](400).

> > *But this same power, seated in the center, or in the heart, is the cross, and with that cross of Saturn in  our Order is the Rose conjoined, and the Rose is the flower of Venus. So in Rota, over and over again, you wee Venus and Saturn represented by the same symbols and numbers.*

> > *It is not the goad of Lamed what the call the Devil? And here in the Rota the Devil is the sign Capricorn ruled by Saturn. Where then does he show the power of Venus? Your old Puritan theologians would have had no trouble with this question, for to them , all that the ancient world attributed to Venus was the Devil himself! But the wise are never Puritans, so we must look closer. The number gives the clue. 15 reduces to 6, the number of the Lovers, and the title of Key 6 surely refers to things in the domain of Venus. Moreover the number 6 is the extension of 3, and in Rota 3 is Venus herself. See how the numbers and ideas are so related that, with all their intricacy, you have only to follow the clues, step by step, to come to the main conclusion, reinforced from many points of view, that there is a hidden deep connection between Venus and Saturn.*

> > *Now leave these clues for a while and turn to another field. What in your physical vehicle is the Saturn center, and what is its function? Is it not clearly related to Venus? Indeed among the Interior Stars, the Venus center is to the two above it, as is the Saturn center to those of Mars and Jupiter. The Sun center is medway between these two triads, one in the turnk, the other in the head. SAo in Alchemy the object is to trnsmute Saturn into Sol. "But to do this" says one, "you must take Venus and make her into coints." All through the Alchemical writing you find this expressed in one way or another. yopiu must being with tVenus, and what is she but the Lady of Love, whether that lvoe be celestial or profane, for where love is in any guise ther is our Isis.*

> > *Saturn fixes form, Venus forsees new modes of expression. Venus without Saturn has no stability, builds air castles, takes flights from reality on the wings of fancy. But when Venus and Saturn are combined, love divines the true uses of the forms which hate abhors, and fear seeks to escape, for the perfection of Venus, that is of imagionation, is **understanding** -- as you may see from the Path of Daleth on the Tree. Imagination sets man free from the restrictions of sense, yet fulfills sensation instead of diminishing or destroying it. Thus our Lady Venus in [Key 8](8), tames her lion, but does not run away from him or kill him.*

> [19th Communication]

---

### [ish milkhamah](/keys/AISh.MLChMH) - איש מלחמה
> Man of War. [Exodus 15:3](http://biblehub.com/exodus/15-3.htm). The letter-name for Daleth is concealed in this saying *"The Lord is a man of war."* A reference to Tetragrammaton. The Book of Tokens says of Daleth: *"This is the gateway of life and form. Yet through it come also death and comfort, even as is shown in the numbering of Daleth. For דלת being 434, is also [11](11), and 11 is the half, or division of [22](22), which represents the whole circle of creation. Therefore is the door a cause of separation, and of the setting of one part against another; and for this it is written that the Lord is a 'man of war'".* see [832](832).

---

### [bohu (spelled in full)](/keys/BITh-HH-VV) - בית־הה־וו
> meaning "chaos," [Genesis 1:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-2.htm).

---

### [Tzale Shaddai](/keys/TzL.ShDI) - צל שדי
> The shadow of the Almighty. [Psalm 91:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/91-1.htm): *"he shall abides in the secret place of the most high shall abide under the shadow of the almighty."* see [541](541).

---

### [eth abika](/keys/ATh.ABIK) - את אביך
> *"The essence of thy father."* The masculine essence (Chaiah) proceeding from Chokmah, in the path of Daleth to Binah. This intimation is that the active principle in the path of the Luminous Intelligence (Daleth) is actually the masculine "essence" of light. In Tarot, the same thing is suggested, for the Empress (Key 3) is by implication the wife of the Emperor, and her pregancy is the consequence of the operation within her of his active power. The ten commandments enjoins us to honor "thy father" and mother. [Deuteronomy 5:16](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/5-16.htm). see [914](914), [23](23), [73](73).

---

### [tal ha-shamaim](/keys/TL.HShMIM) - טל השמים 
> dew of heaven. [Genesis 27:28](http://biblehub.com/genesis/27-28.htm). Refers to light-the universally diffused radiance, which takes form as electro-magnetic energy. It is granular in structure, falls upon the earth in drops and weight of its fall may be measured. see [390](390), [983](983), [541](541).

> *"For as the dissolution of body and soul is performed in the regenerated gold, where body and soul are separated from one another, and yet remain close together in the same phial, the soul daily refreshing the body form above, and preserving it from final destruction, until a set time: so the decaying and halfdead bodily part of man is not entirely deserted by its soul in the furnace of the cross, but is refreshed by the spirit form above with heavenly dew, and fed and preserved with divine nectar."* [Hermetic Museum I, p.111]

---

### [amisaddi](/keys/OMIShDI) - עמישדי
> A proper name, Amishaddai. "People of the Almighty". [Numbers 1:12](http://biblehub.com/numbers/1-12.htm).

> *"This is difficult until we remember that this letter refers to the activity of the subconsciousness in the generation of mental images. Until this activity is brought under control, it is the case of all strife, of all contention. Yet form this same activity of the subconsciousness we may develop powers which enable us to be numbered among the people of the almighty. The numerical root of 434 is the prime number 31, which is the divine name AL shrength. 434 is 19 x 31, and since ID Yod is 14, 434 represents numerically the multiplication of the divine power by the works of the almighty hand. In other words, 434 thus interpreted, suggest the process whereby the life-power manifests itself or creates. That power is the generation of mental imagery, which enters into the sphere of our experience through the door of subconsciousness."* [Gematria of the Letter-names]

---

### [hashaq IHVH](/keys/ChShQ.IHVH) - חשק יהוה
> "The Lord had a delight". [Deuteronomy 10:15](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/10-15.htm). In the Interlinar Bible, *"Yet the Lord set his affection on your forefathers and loved them, and he chose you, their descendants, above all the nations, as it is today."*

---

## Greek

---

### [heh ampelos](/greek?word=h.ampelos) (Gr) - ἡ ἄμπελος
> The vine [John 15:1](http://biblehub.com/john/15-1.htm); [Revelation 14:18](http://biblehub.com/revelation/14-18.htm).

---

### See Also

- [11](11)
- [2](2)