## 441 - Four Hundred Forty-One
> 21x21.

### [emeth](/keys/AMTh) - אמת
> Stability (hence, truth.) Refers to Tav, joined with Mem at the center of the Cube of Space. This word suggest the power of Spirit (Aleph) working through the agency of universal substance (Mem) to bring about the dominion of its creation (Tav), which is Man. see [340](340), [476](476), [85](85) Latin.

### [atem](/keys/AMTh) - אמת
> you (masc. plural).

### [gahkheleth](/keys/GChLTh) - גחלת
> burning coal, a live coal; carbuncle. It is said of the illuminated that they are "coals of fire"- the igniting of the higher brain centers, especially the pineal gland. "Carbuncle" suggest a misfunction of this process, as "the fallen angels".

### [Lariar](/keys/LRIAR) - לריאר
> Day demon of the 2nd decanate of Leo. This decanate is governed by Jupiter, indicating unkindness, intolerance and boorishness, qualities the opposite of which animate the Chasidim (Jupiter) through the Heart (Sun). which Leo represents.

### [Ramra](/keys/RMRA) - רמרא
> Lesser angel governing triplicity by day of Pisces. This suggest that "truth" has something to do with modifying the perception of the body cells, bring spirit down to earth.

### [ath-mem](/keys/AThM) - אתם
> "Essence of water". Ethem, the wilderness of Shur [Numbers 33:8](http://biblehub.com/numbers/33-8.htm) 441 = 9 = Teth, the serpent. see [507](507), [245](245), [250](250), [290](290), [441](441), [527](527).

### [meath](/keys/MATh) - מאת
> a hundred. [Genesis 25:7](http://biblehub.com/genesis/25-7.htm) *"All together, a Braham lived a hundred and seventy-five years."*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"The name of this number indicates an extension produced by the desire to be extended, to be manifested. The root of this word אוה, literally desire, is here governed by the signs of exterior action Mem. One finds in Arabic [word] expressing to extend and to dilate. In nearly all the tongues of Asia, Mah signifies great."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp. 154-155] For other numerals see [13](13), [400](400), [636](636), [273](273), [348](348), [600](600), [372](372), [395](395), [770](770), [570](570).

> Of אוה he writes: *"Action of longing ardently, desiring, inclining with passion. [From] Ah ah. Vocal principle. Interjective root in which is attached all passionate movements of the soul, those which are born of joy ad pleasure as well as those which emanate from sorrow and pain. It is the origin of all interjective relations called interjections, by the grammarians. Interjections, says Court De Gebelin, varying but slightly as to sound, vary infinitely according to the degree of force with which they are pronounced. Suggested by nature and supplied by the vocal instrument, they are of all times, all places, all peoples they form an universal language. It is needless to enter into the detail of their various modifications. אה the potential sign united to that of life, forms a root in which reside the idea most abstract and most difficult to conceive-that of the will; not however, that of determined or manifested will, but will in potentiality and considered independent of every object. It is volition or the faculty of willing."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.289]

### [doe](/keys/AILTh) - אילת
> [Proverbs 5:19](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/5-19.htm) *"A loving doe, a graceful deer -- may her breast satisfy you always, may you ever by captivated by her love."* Rosenroth and Mathers give cerva as the Latin for this word.