## 444 - Four Hundred Forty-Four
> (3x4x37). Note 444 is [400](400) and [44](44).

---

### [dam sack](/keys/DM.ShQ) - דם שק
> blood sack.

---

### [Damshq](/keys/DMShQ) - דמשק
> Damascus, an Old Testament city; work. In alchemy the Place of the Work, is also the Blood-sack, the vessel of Skin containing the liquid "living water" which is also the secret fire. see [400](400), [53](53).

> *"Here brother C.R.C. is halted for a time" by reason of the feebleness of his body. The place-name Damascus means 'work'. Every beginner in occult practice finds that he has many purely physiological adjustments to make. 'Sound mind is sound body' applies with special force to esoteric training. A practical occultist must have a strong and pure physical vehicle. To make a sound body takes work, and this work is indicated by the significance of 'Damascus'. While this work goes on, Brother C.R.C. gains favor with the Turks [4th Race Adepts] 'by reason of his skill in medicine'... What the Fama means is that one preparing himself for initiation gains unusual skill in controlling the functions of his body... during this period chastity in thought, word and act is imperative... They who neglect it may not only never get beyond Damascus, but are in danger of worse things. For the practices which bring the body under control release potent physical and psychical forces."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible, (4th) p.114-115] see [264](264), [870](870) (Greek).

> *"The body must be cleansed. The mind must be controlled. The blood stream must be charged with subtle substances from glandular secretions controlled by the subconscious powers called 'Turks' in the Fama. All this must be done in Damascus, before one goes to Damcar. The work in Damascus changes the blood chemistry, and modifies the structure of certain in areas in the brain."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible, (4th) p.125]

---

### [tzephardea](/keys/TzPRDO) - צפרדע
> frogs. An animal attributed to Saturn. The 2nd of the ten plagues of Egypt. [Exodus 8:2](http://biblehub.com/exodus/8-2.htm): ([1](http://biblehub.com/exodus/8-1.htm)) *"Then the Lord said to Moses, 'Go to Pharaoh and say to him, this is what the Lord says: let my people go, so that they may worship me. ([2]((http://biblehub.com/exodus/8-2.htm))) If you refuse to let them go, I will plague your whole country with frogs."*

---

### [makodosh](/keys/MQDSh) - מקדש
> sanctuary. Then he brought me back the way of the outer gate of [the sanctuary](/keys/HMQDSh), המקדש, which looks toward the [east](/keys/QDIM), קדים, and it was shut." The name of God used here is אדני יהוה ([and the Lord](/keys/ADNI.IHVH)) said unto me: *"This gate shall be shut, it shall not be opened, neither shall any man enter in by it, for [the Lord, the God of Israel](/keys/IHVH.ALHI.IShRAL) (יהוה אלהי ישראל). Has entered in by it; therefore it shall be shut. As for the prince, being a prince, he shall sit therein to eat bread before the Lord; he shall enter by way of the porch of the gate, and shall go out by way of the same."* (Then he brought me the way of the north gate)

> See article: Temple of Solomon, in Makey's encyclopedia. The [sanctuary](/keys/MQDSh), מקדש, was 20 x 40 cubits. Thus its area was [800](800) square cubits, and the length of the four boundary lines was [120](120) cubits. Note that the area of the sanctuary, 800 cubits, equals the combines area of the porch and the holy of holies. see [800](800), [120](120), [1025](1025). The alchemical significance has to do with the "place of the work" being used to arrive at the "sanctuary". see [470](470), [864](864) (Greek).

---

### [khoshek-aphilah](/keys/ChShK.APLH) - חשך אפלה
> thick darkness. This relates to the place of work, which is Egypt (subconsciousness) as being a place where the alchemical process takes place in obscurity, or "thick darkness." see [328](328), [116](116), [924](924), [808](808), [328](328).

---

### [nepekechu eineikem](/keys/NPQChV.OINIKM) - נפקחו עיניכם
> (and) your eyes shall be opened. [Genesis 3:5](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-5.htm) *"For God does know that in the day you eat thereof [of the fruit of the Tree of Life], then shall be opened, and you shall be as gods, knowing good and evil."* A reference to the awakening of the third eye, the sensorium of inner vision. see [571](571), [1414](1414).

---

### [tzaw la-tzaw tzaw la-tzaw](/keys/TzV.LTzV.TzV.LTzV) - 
> *"precept upon precept, precept upon precept..."* [Isaiah 28:10, 13](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/28-10.htm). The reference is to those to whom are taught knowledge and made to understand doctrine-the strong who have ears to hear: "here a little and there a little" see [484](484), [928](928) ("line upon line, line upon line".)

---

### [shoken ad](/keys/ShKN.OD) - שכן עד
> who abides forever. [Isaiah 57:18](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/57-18.htm): *"For thus says the high and lofty one who inhabits eternity (abides forever), whose name is holy, whose abode revive the heart of those who are in pain."* see [370](370).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [teleia agape](/greek?word=teleia+agaPh) (Gr) - τελεία ἀγάπη
> perfect love. [1 John 4:18](http://biblehub.com/1_john/4-18.htm) *"There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts our fear; because fear, has restraint; and he who fears has not been perfected in love."* see [620](620), [93](93) (Greek).

---

### [ho agros](/greek?word=o+agros) (Gr) - ὁ ἀγρός
> the field. [Matthew 13:38](http://biblehub.com/matthew/13-38.htm): *"The field is the world; the good seed are the sons of the kingdom; the tares are the children of the evil one."* From a parable of Jesus. R.L. Harrison writes: *"It is the world of though and the senses, where only corruption can reign, being things of the flesh; and where only tares may find a congenial home."* [Sr. Paranandas Commentary on St. Matthew, p.118] see [374](374) (Greek).

---

### [ho argos](/greek?word=o+argos) (Gr) - ὁ ἀργός
> the ship. (From Jason's Argo, 'shining, bright, glistening') Also: the idle, useless; fruitless, unemployed. indolent, slothful, slow. Inactive in [2 Peter 1:8](http://biblehub.com/2_peter/1-8.htm): *"For these things being in you and abounding, they will not permit you to be inactive (ἀργοὺς) nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ."* see [374](374) (Greek).

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
