## 450 - Four Hundred Fifty
> (2x3x3x5x5). 10x45, or Adam, (45) multiplied by the ten Sephiroth.

### [ha-zoheleth](/keys/HZChLTh) - הזחלת
> the serpent. [1 Kings 1:9](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/1-9.htm). Associated with ABN, the stone. This is the serpent power represented by Teth and Key 8. The full expression in the text is אבן־הזחלת, [Stone of Zoheleth](/keys/ABN-HZChLTh), stone of the serpent. (see [445](445))

### [kasaph di-pekhar](/keys/ChSP.DI-PChR) - חסף די־פחר
> potter's clay [Daniel 2:41](http://biblehub.com/daniel/2-41.htm). In the text, the clay is said to be mixed with iron in the symbolic image of Nebuchadnezzar's dream. The physical organism of man and man's body consciousness is one meaning.

### [midoth](/keys/MDVTh) - מדות
> virtues. Refers to the peculiar qualities or properties of man, dependent on his members and organs. Also relates to the various potencies of the Life-power in their latent state, as possibilities in the depths of Binah. Paul Case: מדות midoth is a temurah for 3 Sephiroth, 	חסד [Chesed](/keys/ChSD), גבורה [Geburah](/keys/GBVRH) and תפארת [Tiphareth](/keys/ThPARTh), the Egoic Triad. see [K.D.L.C.K. p.508 and Franck, p.166.

### [maqodesh](/keys/MQVDSh) - מקודש
> sanctity, holiness. Sanctifying Intelligence of Binah. This a consciousness of Mem perfect dependence upon the Life-power; Qoph, perfect organization of all cell-groups in the physical body; Vav, perfect communion and unquestioning obedience to the inner teacher; Daleth, filled with clear, definite pictures of beautiful consequences flowing from recognition of the Life-power's true nature; Shin, vivid consciousness of immortality-the forth dimension. see [67](67), [765](765).

> To sanctify is to make pure, clean, and perfect. A saint is one who has surrendered all personal actions to the direction of the Life-power (Mem), He has traversed the road of initiation during the sleep of his physical body (Qoph). he has listened to the voice of the inner teacher (Vav). He has restored the creator to his throne through the generative powers of imagination (Daleth); and completes his work in the perfection and unfoldment of a new vehicle for the Life-power by the refining fire of the Life-breath of the Elohim (Shin). He has mastered control of the serpent-power (Teth). (This is the spelling as given in True and Invisible page 281, see [415](415) for alternate spelling.)

### [shefah](/keys/ShPO) - שפע
> abundance, overmeasure, emanation; to flow. [Deuteronomy 33:19](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/33-19.htm). Intelligence of Cheth Connected with water. Shin shows the 4th dimensions as the Great sea, Binah. Peh is a symbol of Mezla, the holy influence descending from Kether. Ayin is the way the same power is interpreted as superficial appearances reported by sensation. The noun "influence" suggests the notion of water. The Hebrew shefah occurs once in the Old Testament, where it is translated "abundance." *"They shall suck the abundance of the seas."* Here the idea of abundance is directly connected with water. In this passage there is also an occult reference to time, because the word for "seas" is ימים, [yomim](/keys/IMIM), identical in spelling with a noun which signifies "days." שפע shepa. Influence. see [536](536). Part of the Path names of Intelligence of the House of Influence (Cheth) and Intelligence of Mediating Influence (Tiphareth).

> *"In Tarot the word Shefah (שפע) 'influence', is represented by Keys 20, 16 and 15. [Key 20](20) is a symbol of the 4th dimension, of the place of being which is above, yet within, all other planes. This key shows the coffins of personal consciousness floating of the great sea of Binah, understanding. The 18th Path proceeds form Binah, as we go down the Tree of Life, and the same paths leads to Binah on the way of return. [Key 16](16), corresponding to the second letter of שפע, shows the holy influence as a lighting flash, which destroys the tower of false knowledge. [Key 15](15), corresponding to the third letter of שפע, shows how man interprets the operation of this same holy influence when he knows nothing about it except the superficial appearance reported by the physical sense. Under this last aspect the Holy influence propounds riddles to us, and presents us with problems, Thus the sphinxes of Key 7 and the devil of Key 15 are related symbols. Both represent incongruous combinations of human and animal elements. They are they types of the great magic agent, the force employed in all works of practical occultism."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible,(4th) p.424]

### [lookhuth](/keys/LVChVTh) - לוחות
> "the tables", on which Moses wrote the law. Here is a suggestion that all the powers of man are developments of the Tora. Note that Tora is inscribed on the scroll of the High Priestess who corresponds to the Moon, ruler of Cancer. Since the manifestation of the Tota is the result of the reactions among the ten Sephiroth. see [897](897).

### [peree-etz](/keys/PRI-OTz) - פרי־עץ
> the fruit of the tree. [Genesis 1:29](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-29.htm): *"And God said, behold, I have given you... every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat."* The manifestation of the Tora is the result of the reactions among the 10 Sephiroth. Refers to the ripening of the powers of the Tree of Life. see [671](671), [290](290), [160](160), [1260](1260).

### [pahsah, pawshaw](/keys/PShO) - פשע
> sin, transgression trespass; guilt of transgression punishment. "Missing the Mark." The tower of personality (Peh) is put before the liberty of spiritual realization (Shin). This is the essence of all transgression-the attempt to determine the action of the divine sprit (Shin) by imposing on it forms built up by "personal will" (Peh). see [100](100), [1217](1217).

### [pahsha](/keys/PShO) - פשע
> to transgress, to be in rebellion (verb); to revolt, rebel; to be unfaithful; to be negligent in guarding a trust.

### [pahsa](/keys/PShO) - פשע
> step, pace, progress. Also "to stride, to make progress. PSHO to tread, step, march. When Shin is sounded as "s" it has a more favorable connotation that the Sh sound. see זמה, #[52](52).

### [qenah chokmah, qenah binah](/keys/QNH.ChKMH.QNH.BINH) - קנה חכמה קנה בינה
> get wisdom; get understanding. [Proverbs 4:5](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/4-5.htm): *"Get wisdom; get understanding; do not forget my words or swerve from them."*

### [ratzone bain gebul](/keys/RTzVN.BAIN.GBVL) - רצון באין גבול
> unlimited good will, Good will without limit. Mental state of a saint, a perfect man.

### [shoken aad](/keys/ShVKN.OD) - שוכן עד
> dwelling in eternity, abiding eternally. In man this is the state of having eternal life (inhabitans aeternitatem). see [208](208).

### [tan](/keys/ThN) - תן
> sea-serpent or monster; jackal. Both jackal and dragon refer to the first matter of the alchemical operation. In the Qabalah תן is always the sea monster, inhabiting the great sea. It is a symbol of the spiral, whirling force, at work in Binah. see [713](713).

## Greek

### [he-Thalassa](/greek?word=h.thalassa) (Gr) - η Θάλασσα
> the sea. This is in harmony with the Hebrew conception of Binah as the sea.

### See Also:

- [45](45)
- [9](9)
