## 455 - Four Hundred Fifty-Five
> (5x7x13)

> Every cube has 13 axes of symmetry and 12 edges. If the length of an edge by taken as 1, then the 3 axes of symmetry which are also the cube coordinates will also be 1, the 6 aces whose length corresponds to that of the diagonal of a face of a cube will be √2, and the 4 axes which are the interior of the cube will be √3. Now 1:√2 approximately as 12:21, and 1:√3 approximately as 15:26. Using these numbers for the lines we have 12 edges + 3 coordinates = 15 x 15 = 225. Note that 455 is also 5 x 91, and 7 x 65. Thus the 25 lines comprising the right angels, horizontals and perpendiculars, and the axis of symmetry give, by this calculation, all the principle names of God, viz. IHVH, AHIH, IH, and AMN. Observe too, that the six shorter axes give 126, the length of the 21 edges of a solid corresponding to the vault of C.R. see 910.

    .      12 edges + 3 coordinates: 15 x 15 = 225
    .      6 axes of 21            =  6 x 21 = 126
    .      4 aces of 26            =  4 x 26 = 104
    .                         total:           455

### [Potiphera](/keys/PVTIPRO) - פוטיפרע
> "He whom Ra Gave." *"And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphnath-Paaneah; and he called him to wife Asenath the Daughter of Postiphrah Priest of On [in Egypt]".*

> *Paul Case:* "It was to a daughter of a priest of On that Joseph (Multiplier) was married. Her name was [Asenath](/keys/ASNTh) ([511](511)). She was the daughter of Potiphera (פוטיפרע, 455 = 14, the usual pi-number reoccurring in alchemical names). Thus the Father-in-Law of Joseph bore the same name as the husband of the women who sought to entice him into adultery. For Potiphar and Potiphera are the same in Egyptian.

> [Potiphar](/keys/PVTIPR), however, is spelt פוטיפר, which omits the Ayin. There is much alchemical significance on both spellings. פוטיפרע is:

> - פו: (PV) = [86](86) = אלהים, [Elohim](/keys/ALHIM), and reduces to [14](14);
> - טי: (TI) = [19](19) = חוה, [Chavvah](/keys/), אויב [Job](/keys/AIVB), דיה [diah](/keys/DIH), "was black" and reduces to [10](10);
> - פרע: (PRO) [paruah](/keys/PRO) = [350](350) = [aphar](/keys/OPR), The place from which Solomon got his Gold, and reduces to [8](8).

> The sum of these 3 reductions (14+19+8) is [32](32), the number of the Paths on the Tree of Life... Thus the whole word conceals 4 and 55, or the quaternary, the decad, and the extension of the decad. For the extension of 4 is 10, and the extension of 10 is 55. Finally, 455 reduces to [14](14). The distinctions between these two spellings and their Cabalistic significance should be carefully noted. The Key is that by the addition of Ayin the owner of Joseph, who cast him into prison, becomes the priest of the Sun who is Joseph's Father-in-Law." *[PFC on D.D.B. Philosophers Stone, IX, 8].* see [385](385), [511](511), [57](57)

### [mithawh](/keys/MIThH) - מיתה
> dying, death penalty of death. Suggest Key 13 - death and change, leading to transformation. see [50](50), [106](106), [700](700).

### [Nethah](/keys/NThH) - נתה
> 25th name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the first quinance (1°-5°) of Sagittarius. see [470](470).