## 456 - Four Hundred Fifty-Six
> (8x57)

---

### [thanah](/keys/ThANH) - תאנה
Fig. [Genesis 3:7](https://biblehub.com/genesis/3-7.htm): *"And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked; and they sewed **fig** leaves together, and made themselves aprons."*

> F.J. Meyers comments: "The word thanah translated 'fig' is just the word anah [ANH] with the reciprocal or mutual sign Tav prefixed. Ahinah denotes suffering. In all the Semitic languages it is an expression of pain, trouble, signing, sobbing, etc. The prefix Tav gives the word the meaning or 'mutual sorrow', 'sadness shared by others', when the word 'anah' becomes a verb 'ahnoh' it means 'to be plunged into sorrow, and with the prefix Tav to 'share or communicate some deep sorrow or trouble.'" [The Unknown God, pp.190-191] see [56](56), [702](702), [561](561).

> [beginning of text missing] ...almost a miracle. The letters of the name תאנה [Tenah](/keys/ThANH) illustrate that fact: The symbol of the fig tree Th, Tav engendering directly Aleph, in a perpetual life.

> תא [Tav-Aleph](/keys/ThA) culminate in נה [Nun-Heh](/keys/NH). This explains Jesus mysterious curse upon the unfruitful fig-tree [Matthew 21: 18-22] If it does not give forth the Aleph, it is not a real fig tree, it is an imposter." [Song of Songs, p. 75]


---

### [tehaynaw](/keys/ThANH) - תאנה
> Opportunity and purpose; occasion and design; copulation, a coming together, lust.

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *As to the word ThANH... to distinguish the sign Tav, a sign that the most ordinary grammarians have distinguished as an heemanthe or paragogic, and to which they have attributed, under these two relations, the faculty of expressing the continuity of things and their reciprocity. this distinction made, the word ANH has no longer the least difficulty. It is an expression of grief not only in Hebrew, but in Samaritan, Chaldaic, Syriac, Arabic and Ethiopic. It is formed from an onomatopoetic root which depicts the groans, sobs, pain and the anhelation of a person who suffers. This expressive root belongs to all tongues. One finds it united to the Sign Tav on several occasions, and especially to express a deep, mutual sorrow. It is presumable that the fir-tree has received the metaphorical name of ThANH on account of the mournfulness of its foliage, from which lactescent tears appear to flow from its fruits. However that may be, the onomatopoetic figure which is here presented for the first time, although it may be somewhat rare in Hebrew, is far from being wholly foreign as the Rad. Vocab. has shown. It is at first, in Hebrew, as in the Arabic [word], only a kind of exclamation as alas! but, transformed into a verb by means of the convertible sign Vav, it becomes AVN or ANVH whose meaning is, to be plunged in grief, to cry out with lamentations. Thence ANVH, sorrow, affliction; and finally ThAVNH or ThANVH deep and concentrated grief that one shares or communicates.*

---

### [eth ha-adamah](/keys/ATh-HADMH) - את־האדמה
> THE GROUND. [Genesis 2:5](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"(The Lord God made) every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew: for the Lord God had not caused it to rain upon the earth, and there was not a man to till **the ground.**"* "Ground" suggest the physical plane. see [296](296).

---

### [Heh-Vav-Daleth](/keys/HH-VV-DLTh) - הה־וו־דלת
> Hod, spelled in plenitude. also Fig Tree in Fruit, Mountain of Myrrh, legs, thighs, street, ways. see [15](15).

---

### [ketol](/keys/KThVL) - כתול
> Wall of a House. Refers to Tiphareth. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.473] says that it is referred to Tiphareth in the Zohar, when it is joined to Malkuth per justum [i.e. rightly].

---

### [amath, aimawtha](/keys/AIMThH) - אימתה
> Fear, dread, terror, awe, reverence. According to Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.79] This pertains to Geburah. Recall that [Pachad](/PChD) [[92](92)] fear, is one of the names of Geburah. see [216](216).

---

### [partzuph](/keys/PRTzVP) - פרצוף
> face, person.

---

### [kolo leaserekaw](/keys/QLV.LISRK) - קלו ליסרך
> his voice to instruct thee. [Deuteronomy 4:36](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"out of heaven he hade thee to hear his voice, that he might instruct thee: and upon earth he sowed thee his great fire; and thou heard his words out of the midst of the fire."* The fire is Shin (Key 20) and also Teth (Key 8 = Leo = the Sun). "voice" = Vav.

---

### [kahathal](/keys/KHThAL) - כהתאל
> "God Adorable". 8th Shemhamphorash; angel of 8 of Pentacles (Hod of Assiah). 36-40. Genie: ASICAT. March 27, June 7, August 17, October 29, January 9. [Psalm 95:6](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"O come, let us worship and bow down: let us kneel before the Lord our maker."* To obtain the blessing of God or drive away evil spirits. Rules all agricultural production, and principally those necessary to the existence of men and animals. Inspires man and raises him near to God. Person born: loves work, agriculture, the country and the hunt, and has much activity in affairs. see [965](965), [1525](1525), [425](425).

> According to Godwin, this is the angle of the 2nd quinance (6°- 10°) of Virgo, and angel by night of the 8 of Pentacles.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [mehter](/greek?word=mhThr) (Gr) - μήτηρ
> Mother. Refers to Binah, the mother of form and sphere of Saturn. see [656](656), [744](744) Greek. [Luke 12:53](https://biblehub.com/luke/12-53.htm): *"The father shall be divided against the son, and the son against the father; the **mother** against the daughter, and the daughter against the mother; the mother in law against her daughter in law, and the daughter in law against her mother in law."*

---

### [parthenias](/greek?word=parthenias) (Gr) - παρθενίας
> Virgin, virginal. Related to the virgin birth of Christ and to the mother, "whose purity naught can defile." [Book of Tokens, Daleth] see [744](744), [515](515), [365](365). [Luke 2:36](https://biblehub.com/luke/2-36.htm): *"And there was one Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Aser: she was of a great age, and had lived with an husband seven years from her virginity;"*

---

### See Also:

- [15](15)
- [6](6)
- [Bible Wheel: 456](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=456)
