## 462 - Four Hundred Sixty-Two
> (2x3x7x11). Total area of the sides of the vault of C.R. and sum of the areas
of its ceiling and floor. ([280](280)+[182](182)).

---

### [nawthb](/keys/NThIB) - נתיב
> A path, road, way. [Job 18:10](http://biblehub.com/job/18-10.htm); [Psalm 78:50](http://biblehub.com/psalms/78-50.htm). This noun includes, the idea of action, or method. The ruling principle is the beginning of a methodical process, the initial point whence proceeds a line, or course of conduct, behavior or performance. see [467](467), [868](868).

---

### [beer-lahai-roi](/keys/BAR.LChI.RAI) - באר לחי ראי
> Well of the living and seeing one, Well of the Living One, my seer. [Genesis 16:13](http://biblehub.com/genesis/16-13.htm) *"So she [Hagar] called the name of the Lord that spoke unto her, thou God sees me; for she said, have I also here looked after him that sees me? ([14](http://biblehub.com/genesis/16-14.htm)) wherefore the well was called beer-lahai-roi; behold it is between Kadesh [holy] and Bered [hail]."*

> *The Zohar [135B] says: "The 'well' is none other but the Shekinah; 'the living one' is an allusion to the righteous one who lives in the 2 worlds, that is, who lives above, in the higher world, and who also lives in the lower world, which exist and is illuminated through him, just as the moon is only illuminated when she looks at the sun. Thus the well of existence literally emanates from the 'living one' whom it sees, and when it looks at him it is filled with living waters." The identity of numeration between this 'well' which the Zohar explains as representing the sum total of existence, emanating from the righteous one, or the supreme unity, and 'the commandments of Jehovah' points to un underlying identity of meaning. This is fairly obvious, for it is one of the fundamentals of the Qabalah that he universe is commanded into manifestation through the word of God. Thus it follows that whatever is manifested is the visible presentation of the divine intention. Observe that the well of existence is also the well of vision, and that the Psalmist assert that the commandments of Jehovah enlighten the eyes. So, too, the Fama conceals its central mystery in the symbolism of this vault, a symbolism addressed to the eyes. And elsewhere, defining the qualifications of a true Rosicrucian, the Confessio declares: 'Truly, to whom it is permitted to behold, read, and thence forth teach himself those great characters which the Lord God hath inscribed upon the world's mechanism, and which he repeats through the mutation of empires, such an one is already ours, though yet unknown to himself.' Remember, too that this number 462 is that which represents the total area of the vault, which the Fama describes as a compendium of the universe.* [True and Invisible (Weiser) p. 119-120].

---

### [ad ki yaba Shiloh](/keys/OD.KI.IBA.ShILH) - עד כי יבא שילה
> until Shiloh come; as long as men come to Shiloh. [Genesis 49:10](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-10.htm) *"The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor a law-giver from between his feet until Shiloh come..."* see [358](358).

---

### [omeq rom](/keys/OVMQ.RVM) - עומק רום
> phofundum celsitudinis; depth-height, exaction. see [216](216), [236](236).

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
