## 464 - Four Hundred Sixty-Four
> (16x29)

---

### [bi-degath ha-yawm](/keys/BDGTh.HIM) - בדגת הים
> over fish of the sea. [Genesis 1:28](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-28.htm): "(and have dominion) over the fish of the sea. The "fish" is the power of Nun. It is the reproductive power which transforms man int the new image via intense, sustained desire. the end result of man's dominion over this power is his perpetual intelligence of unity with his creator. see [1024](1024).

---

### [temidi](/keys/ThMIDI) - תמידי
> steady, continuous, perpetual. name of the [31st Path](31), [Shin](/keys/Sh). *"so-called because it is the perfection of the handiwork of the eternal."*

> - תם, [Toom](/keys/ThM): perfection.
> - יד, [Yod](/keys/ID), is hand.
> - [Key 7](7) for תם, (toom). [440](440) = 8.
> - [Key 4](4) for יד, (yod). [14](14) = 5.
> - [Key 9](9) for Yod.
> - 7 + 4 + 9 = [Key 20](20) ([Judgement](/keys/Sh)), the ROTA symbol for the first matter.

> see [300](300), [369](369), [454](454), [814](814).

> As a state of consciousness, Temidi refers to a level of development wherein there is a moment by moment remembering without cessation, of the eternal verities at first merely learned about. *"The 31st path is called the Perpetual Intelligence because it rules the movements of the sun and moon according to their constitution, and perfects all the powers of all the revolutions of the zodiac, and the arrangement (or, form) of their judgments."* The word "forms" is the plural of צורה, [tzurah](/keys/TzVRH), written צורות, [tzuroth](/keys/TzVRVTh). Thus is refers to archetypal or prototypical forms. "Their Judgements" is משפטיהם, [Mishpatiham](/keys/MShPTIHM), and might better be translated "their laws." Yet the older rendition affords a clue to the real meaning of the title of [Key 20](20) ([Shin](/keys/Sh)). The Judgement pictured in this Key is the last stage of the operation of a Law which completes the soul's return to its Divine Source. תמידי is derived from תמיד, [Tawmid](/keys/ThMID), "continuance; daily offering in the temple." In ancient Hebrew refers to perceptual time.

> *"The [31st Path](31) of Fire, and a Path of the [Ruach Elohim](/keys/RVCh.ALHIM), for Fire and Spirit are one, and this is a Path of the letter Sheen, which is the 3rd of the 3 Mothers. תמידי is it called, because it is the perfection of the handiwork of the Eternal. This may you see in the name itself, for the first two letters, Tav and Mem, spell Thum, which is perfection; the second two spell [yod](/keys/ID), יד, which is the name for hand; and the last is the letter which represents Kether and Chokmah, for the Fire of Spirit is the root of fire which appertaineth unto Chokmah, and this is that Consuming Fire which is God Himself. It is the Fire of Mind which divides itself into the semblance of duality, and in its descent into manifestation brings forth bodies. Being Eternal, it is also Superior, and thus it is written that it regulates the motions of Shamash and Lebanah, the Sun and the Moon. The Sun is Tiphareth, and the Moon is Yesod, on the Tree, among the Sephiroth. Thus may you know that the 31st Path has to do with the regulation of the powers of Ruach and Nephesh.*

> *They among the Sons of the Doctrine who hide their meaning behind the veils of the work of Hermes, say that theirs is a work of the Sun and Moon, performed by the aid of Mercury. See then, that on the Tree, this is the Path which hath the Kingdom of the body at its lower extremity, and the Sphere of Mercury at its upper, for the work of the 31st Path is that of the woman who is the Moon, and the man who is the Sun, and from this work cometh forth the child which is the new creature. For this is a work of embodiment, and not without its proper body may the Perpetual Intelligence by made manifest. Yet is that body one of flesh and blood, but different from those which come forth from the womb of ordinary birth. It is a body incorruptible, though the seed of it is sown in corruption. Yet it is truly a Perpetual body, transmuted from the ordinary body that comes through the gate of birth. But without the aid of Mercury, this transmutation may not be effected, for this body taketh one out of the flux and re-flux of birth and death, and truly is it a work of art wherein the powers of Sun and Moon, or Ruach and Nephesh, are conjoined in full perfection. Not by inheritance is this accomplished, but by the working of a power descending through the Paths on the side of Binah, and as may be seen on the Tree, all the Paths on the side of Binah have their beginning in the Path of Beth, which is that of Mercury or Kokab. For every man there shall come a time to begin his work of release from the delusion of separate personality, and from the shackles of times, seasons and places. But this cometh not in the lesser wheelings of nature, and hath always its beginning in an influx from above.*

> *Yet for long shall it seem to him to whom this influx hath descended, that he is of his own will and purpose seeking release, but truly this is not so. The fire consumes what it will, the Breath of Spirit blows where it listeth, nor is there any law discernible by man to govern its operation. Its work is without beginning or end, never does it fail in anything small or great, yet is there in it no trace of what man meaneth by plan, or law, or design. Freely it works, and thus it is written of the Sephiroth that they are "belimah," which signifies "something not to be expressed, and something altogether free from bonds or encirclement of any kind." Waste not thy strength in trying to comprehend this. Know if thou mayest, but grasp it thou can not.* [43rd Communication] see [814](814).

> *"The Text is obscure, of course, like most of its kind intentionally so, in part, because it is the unfailing policy of the Wise to require competence from those who receive their instruction. But apart from this, the subject matter requires a special vocabulary so to say, and one must be well-versed in these unusual forms of expression to grasp their full purport. You will do better to read them not together, but each for himself. The words do not so much convey the meaning as set-up trains of association which make the meaning unfold almost by itself; at least that is our experience, and we think that you will find it so also."*

> *...understand the man and the woman to be the two shown in "Judgment." They are of course the alchemical King and Queen, but the woman is more to be identified with Yesod than with Malkuth, as the Text indicates. In one sense, any lunar symbol is related to Yesod, and any solar symbol to Tiphareth. So that what is pictured in this Key, since it belongs to the Path of Sheen, indicates a special aspect of the relation between Tiphareth and Yesod, or Ruach and Nephesh, and also the outcome of that relationship, which is symbolized by the child. Of course the general principle has many particular applications in practical work of self-unfoldment. The applications are sufficiently indicated in the lessons already written, so there is no need for repetition.*

> *...this 31st Path has to do with the alchemical Sun and Moon as they are at work in the hidden laboratory, and the secret vessels. And even this application has many ramifications. It applies to the work of those who conduct the experiment alone, but it also applies to those who undertake the joint operation though there were of course few who are in a position to do this latter, because it requires rigorous training, and unusual circumstances, in these days at least. Do not expect us to give you formulas for any of these operations. The Text contains the principle behind all variations of practice, and if you combine it, and this admittedly very brief comment, with study of the Key, you will each learn what you require, though it may be that for each of you the instruction you receive from within, in response to the stimulus afforded by the words of the Text and the symbolism of the Key, will differ from what either of the others receive, and may turn out to be, nay, almost certainly will turn out to be incommunicable, so that you cannot share your knowledge with one another at the level of verbal expression.*

> *This is one of the most recondite Paths, and the paucity of gematria is intentional. If you can take what the Text says about Thum, and יד, and the letter Yod, you may find clues to deeper understanding. Do not forget that the letter Yod is also connected with the Hermit. One hint more:*

> - *תם is [Tav Mem](/keys/ThM), that is [440](440), and the essence of this number is [8](8), the value of [Cheth](/keys/Ch), so that [Key 7](7) may be taken as representing this part of תמיד.*
> - *Then יד, have you ever noticed, being [14](14) is a veil for זהב, [Zahab](/keys/ZHB), and alchemical gold. But since the essence of [14](14) is [5](5), these two letters can be represented by [Heh](/keys/H), or the Emperor,*
> - *so that in Rota you have [Key 7](7) for תם, [Key 4](4) for יד, and [Key 9](9) for the final Yod.*

> *Add these and the result will show you what Levi correctly identified as the Rota symbol for the first matter (7, 4, 9 = 20) which is the very key illustrating Sheen and the [31st Path](31). He also said the same thing of the Devil; see if you can discover the connection.* [44th Communication] see [440](440), [8](8), [14](14).

>	| 360 = Sheen
>	| 160 = Ayin [sic]
>	| -----
>	| 420 > 6 = Tiphareth & Vav, the Hierophant
>	|
>	|  6 = The Lovers
>	| 15 = The Devil
>	| 20 = Judgment
>	| ----
>	| 41 > 5 = Heh, the Emperor
>	|
>	| 1 to 5 = 15, the Devil, and extension of Hierophant
>	| Devil and Hierophant added: 15 + 5 = 20
>	|
>	| Daleth 3 x 5 = 15, the Devil
>	| Heh 4 x 5 = 20, Judgment
>	|
>	| Beth = 417

> *[Above notes by Paul Case]*

---

### [veth-habehemah](/keys/VATh-HBHMH) - ואת־הבהמה
And the livestock. [Genesis 1:25](https://biblehub.com/genesis/1-25.htm): *"And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and cattle after their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind: and God saw that it was good."*

---

### [laladath](/keys/LLDTh) - ללדת
Bare; gave birth to. [Genesis 4:2](https://biblehub.com/genesis/4-2.htm): *"And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground."*

---

### [ubegeoth](/keys/VBGVTh) - ובנות
And daughters. [Genesis 5:4](https://biblehub.com/genesis/5-4.htm): *"And the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years: and he begat sons and daughters:"*

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [heh-mehter](/greek?word=h+mhThr) (Gr) - ἡ μήτηρ
> the mother. Note that the woman in [Key 20](20) is the active one of the 2 adult figures. [John 2:1](http://biblehub.com/john/2-1.htm): *"And on the third day there was a marriage feast in Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there."*

---

### See Also:

- [14](14)
- [5](5)
- [BibleWheel: 464](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=464)
