## 466 - Four Hundred Sixty-Six
466 (2x233)

---

### [Gulgoleth](/keys/GLGLTh) - גלגלת
> the skull, head. The place where Jesus underwent crucification. see [478](478), [301](301) Greek, [186](186).

> *[beginning of text missing] Christ (the son) is said to be crucified at Golgotha..."* see [466](466). The way to the :skull: is the path of truth. see [441](441), [475](475).

> [Canon, p.148]: *"(Golgotha) is also spelt גלגלתא [467](467) - 1 = [466](466): and a cross whose height is 466 has some very remarkable cosmic analogies. Its transverse beam is [216](216), or the diameter of the sun's orbit measured by its own diameter. Its extreme measure is [666](666), the length of the sun's ark. From the bottom of the center of the cross beam is [358](358), the number of the name Messiah, while the height to the top of the cross beam is 366?3/8?. And 466 is the side of a square having a diagonal of [660](660), 1/12 of the earth's diameter in miles. This may explain the translation that Golgotha, [467](467), was the middle of the earth."*

---

### [IHVH be-chokmah yawsad-eretz](/keys/IHVH.BChKMH.ISD.ARTz) - יהוה בחכמה יסד ארץ

> Tetragrammaton, by (or in) wisdom, hath founded the earth. [Proverbs 3:19](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/3-19.htm). see [536](536). The material world (Malkuth) has its actual substance (Yesod-foundation) from the radiant energy of Chokmah. This energy of אב, [Ab](/keys/AB), the father is what performs the alchemical operations described under this number. see [1276](1276).

---

### [yod vav daleth](/keys/IVD.VV.DLTh) - יוד וו דלת
> The letter name Yod spelled in plenitude. Yod is the paternal hand of creation, pictured in this word, suggest that the functions of the inner hearing and creative imagination must be employed for successful conclusion of the work begun by the "father", whose lantern sheds light of the path of return.

---

### [kilyoth](/keys/KLIVTh) - כליות
> kidneys, reins, loins; testicles. kelyoth is the plural of the noun [keli](/keys/KLI), כלי, meaning any utensil, but especially arms, or weapons of war, so that the idea is basically related to זין, the sword. Thus one girds up his loins to prepare for battle. When very little was known of anatomy it was supposed that both urine and semen were secreted by the kidneys, and in later Hebrew כליות sometimes means the testicles. Thus the word refers physically, to the primary sources of bodily power and vigor. Furthermore, the Hebrews shared the belief of all the ancient world: That the loins and reins were the seat of the lower mind, called phrehn (? ?) in Greek. It is from the Greek noun that the Latin renes, signifying kidneys, was derived and renes, passed into English as reins. In this sense כליות means "inward parts, mind, the seat of desires, affections and passions." see [658](658) Greek. Here we see the relation between fixed cardinal air (Libra), governing the kidneys-equilibrium, and mutable air (Gemini) - discrimination. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.478] gives: renes, who says they are Netzach and Hod.

---

### [Olahm ha-Yetzirah](/keys/OVLM.HITzIRH) - עולם היצירה
> World of Formation. In Qabalah, the plane of the Life-power's activity next above, and within, the physical plane. The physical plane is the world of making, or world of manifested forms. The World of Formation or astral plane (Vav in IHVH) must be controlled and directed by the reins and discrimination to effect a change in the "skull". The angelic kingdom, attributed to this plane, is of great use here. see [536](536), [315](315), [1026](1026).

---

### [Simeone](/keys/ShMOVN) - שמעון
> hearing; tribe of Israel corresponding to Zain and Gemini. In [Genesis 49:5](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-5.htm) (a reference of Simeon and Levi): *"Ruthless weapons are their daggers."* This obviously refers to the meaning of the letter name Zain. see [513](513), [497](497), [67](67), [273](273), [739](739).

> xxx [beginning of text missing] ...power are rightly perceived, rightly discriminated, and when their operation is kept in proper order (that is, properly fixed), the personality of the one engaged in this practice is merged with the Life-power itself. this is accomplished with the aid of smell or true discrimination working through the Mercury and Venus centers in the head and throat. see [95](95), [30](30), [570](570), [501](501), [54](54), [162](162), [830](830), [395](395), [259](259), [7](7), [331](331).

> Simeon also means: to hear; to listen, give heed, to obey; to understand, to infer, deduce. From שמע shema, the confession of the unity of God; calling together; hearing capacity (other pointings). see [420](420). This is the inner hearing which Vav the Hierophant represents. Jesus called Simon (Peter) "Hearing, son of the dove" (bar-Jonah). the "dove" is Venus. Hearing (Vav) precedes discrimination (Zain).

---

### [Nuith](/keys/NVITh) - נוית
> Nuit, Hebrew transliteration of the name of the Egyptian sky Goddess.

---

### [sethav](/keys/SThV) - סתו
> autumn; "winter" in [Canticles 2:11](http://biblehub.com/songs/2-11.htm): *"For the winter is past, the rain is over and gone."*

---

### [wayiten](/keys/VIThN) - ויתן
"And set". [Genesis 1:17](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-17.htm): *"And God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth"*

---

## Greek

---

### [heh kalonoehsia](/greek?word=h+kalonoesia) - η καλονοεσια
> right perception. (not in scripture). Related to "the son of God." see [465](465), [1234](1234).

---

### [he odos alethinia](/greek?word=hodos+alhthenia) - ηοδος αληθενια
> The true way. Written ὁδὸς τῆς ἀληθείας, "the way of truth" in [2 Peter 2:2](http://biblehub.com/2_peter/2-2.htm) *"And many will follow their impurities; on account of whom the way of truth will be reviled."* And in [Psalm 119:30](http://biblehub.com/psalms/119-30.htm): *"I have chosen the way of truth, thy judgements have I laid before me."* With 'the son of God' ([1234](1234)) adds to [1702](1702). With "word of love" (#[666](666)) adds to [2368](2368), the value of Jesus Christ. see [344](344), [352](352).

---

### English Gematria:

- [The highly illuminated men, and undeceiving Jesuits](/english?word=The+highly+illuminated+men,+and+undeceiving+Jesuits) *([Fama Intro p.20](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n20))*

---

### See Also:

- [16](16)
- [7](7)
