## 477 - Four Hundred Seventy-Seven
> (9x53)

---

### [Sekhel Motba](/keys/ShKL.MVTBO) - שכל מוטבע
> The Natural Intelligence. Title of Tzaddi, the [28th Path](28). Connects the desire nature (Venus) to the automatic consciousness (Moon). Only meditation can plant the seed of the word in the heart. Then the seed grows and bears fruit. Human personality is the instrument which nature devises and perfects to express the Life-power's knowledge of its own nature, and the possibilities of that nature. The key to success in meditation is to overcome distractions and forgetfulness by faithful practice. The possessor of this path is filled with the spirit of wisdom and counsel. He is the agency through which the natural process of an unbroken flow of consciousness in a particular object is expressed. Nothing but good then results from his thought and action. He shares in the cosmic activity and knows the exact situation in any moment to be the right and necessary one. See [127](127), [81](81), [103](103), [203](203), [222](222), [104](104), [127](127).

> מוטבע is derived from the root יבע which, as a verb means "to press in, to impress, to sink." "Nature" is the meaning in rabbinical writing. The implication is that nature is like the "impression" made on wax by a signet ring.

---

### [zero zadok](/keys/ZRO.TzDVQ) - זרע צדוק
> the seed of Zadok. [Ezekiel 43:19](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"And thou shall give to the priest the Levites that be of the seed of Zadok... a young bullock for a sin offering."* [Zadok](/keys/TzDVQ) means "righteous", and was one of the two chief priest in the Davidic sanctuary in Jerusalem (abode of peace). The "seed" is Yod, assigned to Kether and Chokmah, in the divine name יהוה. The "bullock" is Taurus, represented by [Key 5](5), the Hierophant or intuition. When Vav is "sacrificed" Zadok becomes צדק [Tzedek](/keys/TzDQ) or Jupiter, the sphere of Chesed. Here we see the influx of the "seed", represented by the path of Uranus (super-consciousness) into Chokmah and thence through the path of Taurus to Chesed. The Chasidim or the merciful ones are possessors of the path of Tzaddi, because of the occult connection between Jupiter and Moon, and they give "efficacious councils."

---

### [mawkon har-Tzion](/keys/MKVN.HR-TzIVN) - מכון הר ציון
> the habitation of Mount Zion. The "pillar of three colors", or one of the 4 angels in the Garden of Eden. [Zohar II: vayehi, p.310] *"By means of this pillar it [the soul] ascends to the great righteousness, in which are Zion and Jerusalem. If it is worthy to ascend further, then happy is its portion and lot that it becomes attached to the body of the king. If it is not worthy to ascend further. Then 'he that is left in Zion and he that remains in Jerusalem shall be called holy."* see [156](156), [586](586), [116](116).

---

### [eth-hayonah](/keys/ATh-HIVNH) - את־היונה
THE DOVE. [Genesis 8:8](https://biblehub.com/genesis/8-8.htm): *"Also he sent forth **a dove** from him, to see if the waters were abated from off the face of the ground"*

---

### [watimaleh](/keys/VThMLA) - ותמלא
and was filled with. [Genesis 6:11](https://biblehub.com/genesis/6-11.htm): *"The earth also was corrupt before God, **and** the earth **was filled with** violence."*

---

### [wehishqinu](/keys/VHShQINV) - והשקינו
then we will water. [Genesis 29:8](https://biblehub.com/genesis/29-8.htm): *"And they said, We cannot, until all the flocks be gathered together, and till they roll the stone from the well's mouth; **then we water** the sheep"*

---

### [wayit'nehu](/keys/VIThNHV) - ויתנהו
and put him. [Genesis 39:20](https://biblehub.com/genesis/39-20.htm): *"And Joseph's master took him, **and put him** into the prison, a place where the king's prisoners were bound: and he was there in the prison."*

---

### [umilleta](/keys/VMLATh) - ומלאת
and you shall put. [Exodus 28:17](https://biblehub.com/exodus/28-17.htm): *"**And thou shalt set** in it settings of stones, even four rows of stones: the first row shall be a sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle: this shall be the first row"*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [metanoia](/greek?word=metanoia) (Gr) - μετάνοια
> repentance; after-though; change of mind on reflection. Has special meaning in reference to New Testament writings. The Gnostic inference is that repentance is really a renewal of the mind, in this instance, through the exercise of meditation. This brings "completion" to the great work of regenerated personality.

---

### [ekdikesis](/greek?word=ekdikhsis) (Gr) - ἐκδίκησις
> vengeance. [Romans 12:19](http://biblehub.com/romans/12-19.htm): *"Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath: for it is written, 'vengeance is mine; I will repay, says the Lord.'"* Refers to another biblical passage [Proverbs 24:29](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/24-29.htm): *"Say not, I will do so to him as he has done to me: I will render to the man according to his work."* There is no vengeance in love, and the recompense is shalom. see [370](370), [190](190).

---

### [pantelia](/greek?word=pantelia) (Gr) - παντελια
> All complete, fully accomplished. Name for the number 10 and for Malkuth. see [496](496), [986](986), [859](859), [1386](1386), [1984](1984).

---

### See Also:

- [18](18)
- [9](9)
- [Bible Wheel: 477](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=477)
