## 478 - Four Hundred Seventy-Eight
> 2x239.

### [Zauir Anpin](/keys/ZOIR.ANPIN) - זעיר אנפין
> Lesser Countenance. Microprosopus. A title of Tiphareth. The complete Lesser Countenance is composed of the Sephiroth from 4 to 9 and all are aspects of Ruach, the human spirit.

### [be-liloth](/keys/BLILVTh) - בלילות
> by night. [Psalm 134:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/134-1.htm).

### [gulgoleth](/keys/GVLGVLTh) - גולגולת
> the skull (as round), cranium. Hebrew original of Golgotha, or calvary (Calvaria, cranium). The "Place of the Skull" is the place of the mystical crucifixion, and right understanding of this detail is of utmost importance in practical work. see [466](466).

### [mi-baqashiy IHVH](/keys/MBQShI.IHVH) - מבקשי יהוה
> Ye that seek Tetragrammaton. [Isaiah 51:1](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/51-1.htm): *"Hearken to me, ye that follow after righteousness, ye that seek the Lord: look unto the rock whence ye are hewn, and to the hole of the pit whence ye are digged."* The "rock" is the stone. see [53](53). The stone is found in the skull (above) on the physical plane.

### [vayachel Noah aish ha-adamah](/keys/VIChL.NCh.AISh.HADMH) - ויחל נח איש האדמה
> And began Noah, man of the ground (and planted a vineyard). [Genesis 9:20](http://biblehub.com/genesis/9-20.htm) The Zohar [Prologue 6B] says [Deuteronomy 33:1](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/33-1.htm): which calls Moses "man of God" איש האלהים implies that he was the husband (איש), as it were, of the divine glory, leading it [text ends]

### [Ketubim](/keys/KThVBIM) - כתובים
> Haglographia, third part of the Bible. [From Greek sacred, holy and to write, or written by inspiration]. The last of the three Jewish divisions of the Old Testament, or that portion not in the law of the prophets. [Webster]. The "inspiring word" is here related to the "search for IHVH", to "Noah, Man of the Ground" and to the center or adytum in the "skull", which is created "by night". see [1038](1038).

### [Mahelath](/keys/MChLTh) - מחלת
> Mahalath, daughter of Ishmael; with of Esau. [Genesis 28:9](http://biblehub.com/genesis/28-9.htm) *"So he [Esau] went to Ishmael and married Mahalath, the sister of Nebaloth and daughter of Ishmael son of Abraham, in addition to the wives he already had."* Later Mahalath was considered a major demon, the mother of Agrath, and angel of prostitution.

## Latin

### Sanguinalis animala rosa Hierichuntis Spiritualis (Lt)
> Animal blood, spiritual Rose of Jericho. Part of the Latin motto in a diagram of page 13 of Secret Symbols. see [958](958). The whole Latin passage of which it is the first sentence adds to 958, the value of Jesus in Greek, written with the usual definite article.

### See also:

- [19](19)
- [10](10)