## 480 - Four Hundred Eighty
> (3x5x32)

### [Lilith](/keys/LILITh) - לילית
> Queen of the Night, Queen of Demons and Qlippoth of Malkuth, the queen or physical plane. see [773](773). Godwin gives: Queen of the night, queen of demons, wife of Samael, wife of Asmodai, first wife of Adam; arch-demon corresponding to Yesod.

> According to Davidson, *"In Jewish tradition, where she originated, Lilith is a female demon, enemy of infants, bride of the evil angel Sammael (Satan). She predate Eve, had marital relations with Adam... According to Rabbi Eleazar (The Book of Adam and Eve), Lilith bore Adam every day 100 children. The Zohar (Leviticus 19A) describes Lilith as 'a hot fiery female who first co-habited with man', but, when Eve was created, 'flew to the cities of the sea coast,' where she is 'still trying to ensnare mankind'... In the Cabala she is the demon of Friday and is represented as a naked woman whose body terminates in a serpent's tail... Lilith is in fact drawn from the Lili, female demonic spirits in Mesopotamian demonology, and known Ardat Lili. The Rabbis read Lilith into scripture as the 1st temptress, as Adam's demon wife, and as the mother of Cain.. in Talmudic lore, as also in the Cabala (The Zohar), most demons are mortal, but Lilith and two other notorious female spirits of evil (Naamah and Agrat Bat Mahlat) will 'continue to exist and plague man until the Messianic day, when God will finally extradite uncleanliness and evil from the face of the earth..." Lilith and Sammael are said to have 'emanated from beneath the throne of divine glory, the legs of which were somewhat shaken by their [joint] activity"... Lilith went by a score of names, 17 of which she revealed to Elijah when she was forced to do so by the Old Testament prophet."* [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, pp.174-175]

> Kenneth Grant adds: *"Lalita (Sanskrit): the sexual aspect of shakti or power. The original symbol of the concept was, not the woman, but the sow, known in ancient Egypt as Rerit. The great sow or sower became the Lalita of the Indian and the Lilith of Chaldean lore, where she appears as the Queen of Night and the prototype of the succubus or sexual vampire."* [Night of Eden, p.269]

### [talmud](/keys/ThLMVD) - תלמוד
> teaching.

### [kawl-nephesh](/keys/KL-NPSh) - כל נפש
> "all living". [Genesis 1:21](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-21.htm): *"And God (Elohim) created great whales, and every living creature that moves, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind, and every winged fowl after his kind: and God saw that it was good."*

### [haikal ha-qadosh](/keys/HIKL.HQVDSh) - היכל הקודש
> "The palace of holiness, or holy temple. [Sepher Yetzirah 4:4 kalisch] *"The holy temple that stands in the center, which carries them all."* (i.e. the 6 dimensions: height, depth, east, west, south, north). see [586](586), [282](282), [65](65), [404](404).

### [abeni tohu](/keys/ABNI.ThVHV) - אבני תוהו
> "stones of emptiness"; lapides inanitatis [K.D.L.C.K. p.21] says they pertain to Chesed. see [411](411), [53](53). Suggest a lack of memory, as Chesed is associated with Jupiter and cosmic memory.

### [Aiath](/keys/OITh) - עית
> Aiath; Malkuth, 42-fold name in Yetzirah. [Isaiah 10:28](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/10-28.htm): *"He is come to Aiath..."* (באעל עית), Malkuth in Yetzirah, the formative world. see [315](315).

> According to Westcott, this is one of three names for "bird" in alchemy, which generally means sublimations. In the Aesch Mezareph [III, p.25] A beast with 4 wings like a bird was given power over the lion and bear that he may extract their gluten or blood. see [156](156), [376](376). The last three letters of the 42-letter name of God, according to Godwin.

### [sitayraw ahchayraw](/keys/STRA.AChRA) - סטרא אחרא
> Evil power, demonry, adverse influence; evil side, the devil's domain. Literally, "the other side" [Aramaic] [Zohar II, p.50] "The 'adverse influence' which brings suffering and chastisement is therefore necessary in the world. Since it rouses in man fear: for through chastisement an man becomes filled with the true fear of God, and does not harden his heart; for if he does..." [text ends]

### [toph](/keys/ThP) - תף
> a hand-drum or tambourine called the timbrel; also bezel-the part of a setting that receives and holds a gem. [Job 21:12](http://biblehub.com/job/21-12.htm): *"They take the timbrel and harp, and rejoice at the sound of singing."* see [1200](1200).

### [path](/keys/PTh) - פת
> bit morsel. with different pointing: poth opening; pudenda (Godwin). Suggests that which enables doors to be open and shut [Daleth = door]. But PTh is also translated 'secret parts' i.e. yoni, and here was are close to a very carefully guarded doctrine of Qabalah." [Paul Case, The Flaming cube: Light of the Chaldees, p.4]. [PThH = to be open; to be simple, foolish; to be enticed, deceived; PThH to seduce; to persuade, entice] PTh bit, morsel (Godwin).