## 481 - Four Hundred Eighty-One
> (13x37)

---

### [Adiryaron](/keys/ADIRIRVN)
> The Mighty One Sings. A title of Tiphareth [Godwin]. see 1131. According to Davidson, also known as Adir, Adriron. The angelic chief of 'The Might of God" [i.e. Michael]; also a name for God. Adiririon is invoked as an amulet against the evil eye. He is said to be a guard stationed at one of the halls or palaces of the 1st heaven. in Sepher Raziel, Adiririon is a 'trusty healing-God, in whose hands are the heavenly and earthly households.'" [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.7] tabaoth annulus (Mathers). [a circuit of the sun, cycle of time]. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.367] says it is the conception of Malkuth in Chokmah; its symbol is a ring of betrothal.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [himation](/greek?word=imation) (Gr) - ἱμάτιον
Cloak. [Luke 6:29](http://biblehub.com/luke/6-29.htm): *"And unto him that smiteth thee on the one cheek offer also the other; and him that taketh away thy cloke forbid not to take thy coat also."* see [449](449)

---

### episkopeia
> overseership. [ over + σ π , watchtower; an overseeing, office of overseer or bishop; a
visitation, or punishment ].

---

### heh episkipeh
> "The Lord's visitation" [1 Peter 2:12] "Having your conduct upright among the gentiles, so that in what they may speak against you as evil-doers, from the good works which they behold, they may glorify God in a day of inspection.: This is the act of being visited or inspected for good, i.e. the care and oversight of the Lord. see 1480.

---

### heh genesis
> The beginning, origin, source, birth, race, descent; generation, procreation, nativity. [Matthew 1:18] Now the nativity of the Christ Jesus was thus: Mary his mother had been pledged to Joseph; but before they were united, she was discovered to be pregnant by the holy spirit". [Luke 1:14] "And he will be to thee a joy and exultation, and many will rejoice on account of his birth" ( ε εσε ). [James 1:23] "For if any one by a hearer of the word, and not a doer, he resembles a man viewing the face of the birth of himself in a mirror" (i.e. his natural face, ε εσε ). Christ is also α α (#532) and α (#709) and π τ (#?1550?)

---

### magnesia katholikeh
> Greek form of Latin magnesia catholica, universal magnet, the alchemical first matter. see 129 (Latin). In the [Hermetic Museum I, p.77] it is said of the matter of the stone that writers "also call it the universal magnesia, or the seed of the world, from which all other object take their origin." see 1766 (Greek).

---

### tria megetheh
> three dimensions.

---

### IAOU
> The name of Tetragrammaton, Notice the similarity to the name of God IAO, used in the Phoenician mysteries. This is definitely a Gnostic derivation, from the Alexandrian brotherhood.

---

### artoi
> "loaves", i.e. bread; part of the temptation of Jesus by the Devil in [Matthew 4:3] "Then the tempter approaching him, said; 'if you be a son of God, command that these stones become loaves." see 671 (Greek); 1964, 370, 4884, 710, 1059, 1219.