## 486 - Four Hundred Eighty-Six
> (2x3x3x3x3x3)

---

### [yesodoth](/keys/ISVDVTh) - יסודות
> foundations. Plural of Yesod, to which are attributed the reproductive activities of both Microcosm and Macrocosm. Refers to the [14th Path](14) of [Daleth](/keys/D) which is the "Instructor in the Secret Foundations of holiness and perfection." see [703](703), [564](564), [80](80), [434](434).

---

### [tikon](/keys/ThIKVN) - תיכון
> inner, central, middle. The name in Hebrew of the Mediterranean sea, less the definite article Heh. There is a connection between the great interior sea (Binah) and the lunar sephirah, Yesod, located on the central, or middle pillar of the tree. see [541](541), [546](546).

---

### [matzoh perusaw](/keys/MTzH.PRVSH) - מצה פרוסה
> unleavened bread (agymum fractum). Taken by the Israelites in their flight from Egypt over the Red Sea. The Christ child is born in the "house of bread" (Bethlechem). see [490](490).

> Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.546] refers this phrase of Malkuth, because it is fermented and purified by her husband [i.e. Tiphareth].

---

### [Shin-Yod-Nun](/keys/ShIN.IVD.NVN) - שין יוד נון
> The letter Shin, spelled in full. The power of transformation (Shin) through the agency of divine will (Yod) produces perpetual change (Nun). see Keys [20](9), [9](9), [13](13).

> Resurrection has to do with Fire, with bread and with the inner "sea".

---

### [IHVH be-kachfeh yamad eretz](/keys/IHVH.BChKPH.IMD.ARTz) - יהוה בחכפה ימד ארץ
> "IHVH in the power of his mouth (fertilizes, founds?) the earth." A name of God.

---

### [ovuioth](/keys/OVITh) - עוית
> a King of Edom. Suggest unbalanced force in the automatic pattern-world (Subconsciousness as Yesod), through wrongly directed desire (Daleth). Also: Avith, a City of Edom; city of King Hadad (Godwin).

---

### [teomim](/keys/ThVMM) - תומם
> twins, variant spelling of תאומים [teawmim](/keys/ThAVMIM), the Hebrew name for the sign Gemini. [Genesis 25:24](http://biblehub.com/genesis/25-24.htm): *"And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold there were twins in her [Rebekah's] womb."* see [1046](1046).

---

### [sukkoth](/keys/SKVTh) - סכות
> tabernacles. [Leviticus 23:34](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/23-34.htm): *"Speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'the 15th day of this seventh month shall be the feast of tabernacles for seven days unto the Lord."* The tabernacle was a pavilion or booth, and the festival was one of thanksgiving for the harvest. This is a feminine word, corresponding to the pillar of Boaz.

> Richardson's Monitor of Freemasonry says: *"Master: where were they cast? Senior warden: on the banks of the river Jordan, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zaradath, were King Solomon order these, and all other holy vessels to be cast."* see [79](79), [699](699).

---

### [lo thi-genov](/keys/LA.ThGNB) - לא תגנב
> "thou shall not steal". The 8th of 10 commandments revealed to Moses by God, in [Exodus 20:15](http://biblehub.com/exodus/20-15.htm).

---

### [Nahathel](/keys/NHThAL) - נהתאל
> According to Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.49], The angle of the 8 of Pentacles. This corresponds to Hod, sphere of Mercury, in Assiah, the physical plane, and in astrology to the first decanate of Virgo.

---

## Greek/Latin

---

### [petra](/greek?word=petra) (Gr) - πετρα
> rock. [beginning of text missing] ...drank the same spiritual drink; for they drank [water] from a spiritual rock which followed them; (but the rock was the anointed)." see [1262](1262), [1270](1270), [53](53), [1480](1480), [1554](1554), [755](755).

> Omikron says that πετρα, as a symbol *"is used in an antiphrastic sense which, relying on an alleged composition of the word, suggests a rapid rising to a great height. Hence it is a synonym for the narrow way, the way of the mystics: or for the few who in their evolution, have passed the narrow gate. The khristos, the anointed in godhood, is its goal. it may be remembered that Demeter, when seeing the Kore [virgin], sat on a 'reverend rock' (agelastos petra)."* [Letters from Paulos, pp.261-262] see [2521](2521), [2881](2881), [2886](2886), [1494](1494).

---

### See Also:

- [18](18)
- [9](9)

