## 490 - Four Hundred Ninety
> (2x5x49)

### [Beth-lechem](/keys/BITh.LChM) - 
> House of bread; Bethlehem. the Birthplace of Jesus (reality liberates). Corresponds to the Virgo area of the human body where the assimilation of food is carried out. Also sheds light on the real meaning of the dogma of Jesus's Virgin Birth. see [412](412), [78](78), [686](686), [1050](1050).

### [Japheth](/keys/IPTh) - יפת
> Expansion; One of Noah's 3 sons. Refers to the diffusion of energy through innumerable forms. see [936](936).

Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"יפת [Japeth](/keys/IPTh)... This name holds a sort of medium between those of Shem and Ham, and partakes of their good or evil qualities without having them in itself. it signifies, in a generic sense, material extent, indefinite space: in a more restricted sense, latitude. the root פת, from which it comes, contains every idea of expansion, of facility to extend, to allow itself to be penetrated; every solution, every divisibility, every simplification. It is governed by the sign of potential manifestation Yod, which adds to its force and universalizes it...Compare diligently, the three sons of Adam with those of Noah... The first production of Adam, after his fall, is Kain [[160](160)]; the second Habel [[37](37)]; the third, Sheth [[700](700)]. Moses, for very strong reasons, inverted the order of similitudes of the productions of Noah. Shem [340], whom he names the first, in this instance, corresponds with Habel, whom he has named second in the other; Ham, whom he names second, corresponds with Kain, whom he has named first; Japheth, who correspond with Sheth preserves with him the same rank. It is without doubt very difficult to know what Moses has concealed under the symbolic names of Kain, Habel and Sheth: but if one wishes to admit that this may be the three constituent principles of the being called Adam, that is to say, the developed, or decomposed triad of the collective unity, he will soon perceive that the symbolic names of Ham, Shem and Japheth, are the constituted priciples of the being called Noah, and that these cosmogonic personages are related one to the other, in the same manner as the effect is related to its cause."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp. 171-173]

> Hamlet II:ii - *"O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!"*

### [tetz](/keys/ThTz) - תץ
> refers to the 42-fold name of Binah, in Yetzirah, the formative world. As formation it is תצורה, [tetzurawh](/keys/ThTzVRH). The formative power of the great mother is the agent of the perfect "rock". see [42](42).

### [tob-attah vu-metib](/keys/TVB.AThH.VMTIB) - טוב אתה ומטיב
> *"thou are good, and does good (teach me thy statutes)."* [Psalm 119:68](http://biblehub.com/psalms/119-68.htm). The creative power is always working toward good results.

### [matawn](/keys/MThN) - מתן
> "gift" [Genesis 34:12](http://biblehub.com/genesis/34-12.htm): *"Ask me never so much dowry and gift, and I will give according as ye shall say unto me."*

> - Also means present, offering. The gift of the Life-power is freely given to those who work to extend its expression in ways of goodness.
> - Also מתן (moten) loin-place of desire and carrier of the "new-birth".
> - מתן (mawtan) to become soft-connected with assimilation of food.

> see [1140](1140).

### [soleth](/keys/SLTh) - סלת
> fine meal, flour. [Ezekiel 16:13](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/16-13.htm): "Thus was thou decked with gold and silver; and thy raiment was of fine linen, and silk, *and broidered work; thou did eat fine flour, and honey and oil: and thou wast exceeding beautiful, and thou did prosper into a kingdom."* The passage refers to Jerusalem, the "abode of peace". It is the vision of the perfected man, who has become the Christ-child.

### [mipesha](/keys/MPShO) - מפשע
> error, "trangression". Plural form in [Psalm 19:13](http://biblehub.com/psalms/19-13.htm): *"Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not have dominion over me: then shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent from the great transgression."* see [311](311), [306](306), [308](308).

### See Also:

- [13](13)
- [4](4)