## 491 - Four Hundred Ninety-One
> (prime)

---

### [Sekhel Ne'eman](/keys/ShKL.NAMN) - שכל נאמן
> Faithful Intelligence. [22nd path](22) of [Lamed](/keys/L). Joins the seat of volition with the Central Ego. This "pranic force" partakes of spiritual power, whose urge is toward increase and is related to the reproductive drive. All work is attributed to this path, including the Great Work-whose secret is equilibrium. The possessor of this path is mentally and emotionally poised, and he result of his work established balance in his surroundings. He uses intelligence to discover the positive opposites of negative mental states and "overcomes evil with good." He is free from fear and thus inspires no fear. He masters wild beasts in his environment because he has subdued their counter-part-the coiled serpent power-in his own nature. He is an unobstructed channel for the one free will, which established the undeviating Justice of universal law. see [67](67), [74](74), [141](141), [1141](1141).

---

### [luchoth ehben](/keys/LChTh.ABN) - לחת אבן
> tables of stone. [Exodus 31:18](http://biblehub.com/exodus/31-18.htm): *"And he gave unto Moses, when he had made an end of communing with him upon Mount Sinai, two tables of testimony, tables of stone, written with the finger of God."* Refers to the law of God, which is engraved on every action (Lamed) of man, as an agent of divine volition (Geburah). see [642](642) (Greek).

---

### [ha-yesodoth](/keys/HISVDVTh) - היסודות
> the elements; the foundations. [Hebrew lexicon]. Refers to Daleth, or Venus, which is the ruler of Libra, to which Lamed is attributed. Creative imagination governs the actions and establishes poise. see [486](486).

---

### [Nithael](/keys/NIThAL) - ניתאל
> "King of the Heavens." 54th Shemhamphorash. 266°- 270°. CHÉNON. May 12, July 23, October 3, December 14, February 24. 5:40-6:00 PM. [Psalm 103:19](http://biblehub.com/psalms/103-19.htm): *"The Lord has perpetuate his throne in the heavens; and his kingdom rules over all."* To obtain the mercy of God and for long life. Rules emperors, kings, princes, and all civil and ecclesiastical dignitaries. It controls legitimate dynasties, and stability of empires, it gives a long and peaceful reign to princes, and protects those who wish to be maintained through their employments. Person born: guises himself by his virtues, and merits the confidence of his prince. see [965](965), [1525](1525), [460](460).

> According to Godwin, angel of the 6th quinance of Aries, according to Mathers angel by night of the 4 of Wands (Chesed of Atziluth).

---

### [omeneth](/keys/AMNTh) - אמנת
> nurse; a name of בינה [Binah](/keys/BINH), [67](67), root of water. Literally "she who rears up", a foster mother. In [Lamentations 4:5](http://biblehub.com/lamentations/4-5.htm): *"They that did feed delicately are desolate in the streets: they that were reared up [i.e. nursed] in scarlet embrace dunghills."* see [497](497).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Patri](/greek?word=patri) (Gr) - Πατρὶ
Father. [Revelation 1:6](http://biblehub.com/revelation/1-6.htm): *"And hath made us kings and priests unto God and his Father; to him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen."*

---

### See Also:

- [14](14)
- [5](5)
- [BibleWheel Gematria Database](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=491)
