## 499 - Four Hundred Ninety-Nine
> (prime)

### [tzabaoth](/keys/TzBAVTh) - צבאות
> Armies (hence, multiplicity). also: busy, arduous, 'hosts' [Mathers].

### [ayeleth ahabim](/keys/AILTh.AHBIM) - אילת אהבים
> cerva amorum. a loving doe. [Proverbs 5:19](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/5-19.htm) *"A loving doe, a graceful deer -- may her breasts satisfy you always, may you ever be captivated by her love."* Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.77] links this phrase to Malkuth when the glorious horns of Hod are placed above it.

## Greek

### [Pergamos](/greek?word=pergamos) - Πέργαμoς
> A celebrated city of Asia minor, famous for its library. Connected as on of the 7 churches or congregations of Asia (OShIH, the physical plane) with inner planetary center of Jupiter. Spelled Περγάμῳ ([1029](1029)) in [Revelation 2:12](http://biblehub.com/revelation/2-12.htm) *"And by the messenger of the congregation in Pergamos write: "These things says the who has the sharp two-edged broad sword; ([13](http://biblehub.com/revelation/2-13.htm)) I know here thou dwells-where the throne of the adversary is; and yet to you firmly retains my name; and thou did not deny my faith even in the days in which Antipas was my witness, my faithful one, who was killed among you, where the adversary dwells."*

> James Pryse connects Pergamos with the liver, the seat of second sight (mantiken) according to Plato: *"this is also the witness Antipas 'who has indeed been slain by those who have lost even the psychic function of the liver, as well as the intuition of the intellectual nature. Anti-pa-s is simply mantis disguised by having its initial M converted into PA and anagrammatically transposed. [To solve the puzzle, it is only necessary to combine the letters π and A, forming IAI, which when inverted makes a passable M--and incidently shows why 'eminent scholars' have failed to find a satisfactory Greek derivation for the word or any historical record of the supposed 'Martyr'."* [Apocalypse Unsealed, pp. 101-102]. 

> Recall that חסד Chesed, the sphere of Jupiter, is the cosmic Moon or memory, and that Kaph, the Hebrew letter of Jupiter is assigned to the liver, as well as to the solar plexus, center of psychic activity. see [1029](1029) (Greek), [20](20), [100](100), [72](72), [194](194), [555](555) (Greek); [980](980), [798](798), [1105](1105), [570](570), [1096](1096), [151](151) (Greek).

### See Also

- [22](22)
- [4](4)
