## 501 - Five Hundred One
> ([3](3)x[167](167))

---

### [Asher](/keys/AShR) - אשר
> A tribe of Israel, associated with Libra, and alchemical sublimation. [Genesis 49:20](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-20.htm). Also means: straight, level, prosperous, happy, blessed. Sublimation involves the elevation or exaltation of undesirable natural trends or impulses, by education or conscious effort, in to some more desirable type of behavior or activity. It includes elimination from mental picture of future action every detail not wished to see realized, whatever wastes power. Libra governs the kidneys -- organs of elimination which maintain the chemical balance of the blood. Breath control is also essential to the work of sublimation. See [570](570), [331](331), [95](95), [30](30), [54](54).

---

### [esher](/keys/AShR) - אשר
> as a pronoun and conjunction: who, which, that, as for regarding. Translated "that" in [Exodus 3:14](http://biblehub.com/exodus/3-14.htm), *"I am that I am."*

> The Zohar (I, page 64) says: *"The Holy name, when inscribed by super-scription, is אשר, the hidden and recondite temple, the source of that which is called ראשית, [Reshith](/keys/RAShITh). The word אשר (i.e. the letters Aleph, Shin, Resh, from the word בראשית [bereshith](/keys/BRAShITh)) is anagramatically ראש, [head](/keys/RASh), the beginning of which issues from בראשית."*

> The Zohar says (I, p.155) *"The truth is that Heh (Binah) is called אשרה, [Ashera](/keys/AShRH) (Venus) after the name of its spouse אשר."* Thus אשר refers to Yod or אב, which is חכמה.

---

### [eyshar](/keys/AShR) - אשר
> "to be guided." Note the root idea of the word למד Lamed, which means "ox-goad". ([lamed](/keys/LMD), למד, ox-goad, to teach). see Book of Tokens. Pronounced ishsheyr, this word means: loan, guide, to be lead, to walk straight; to set right, strengthen, to confirm, verify; to be made happy, to praise.

---

### [eisher](/keys/AShR) - אשר
> relative pronoun (without distinction of number or gender). Also the name of the cedar tree. The feminine אשרה means: happiness, happy, and is the Biblical name of the Phoenician Goddess of Fortune (Syrian עשתרת [1 Kings 11:5](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/11-5.htm), [Ashtoreth](/keys/OShThRTh) or Astarte, who is Venus).

> Compare with Jacob's blessing in [Genesis 49:20](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-20.htm): *"Out of Asher his bread shall be fat, and he shall yield royal dainties."* מעדנים ([dainties](/keys/MODNIM)) is derived from עדן [Eden](/keys/ODN) (see [Key 3](3)). Sustenance, alimentation (in reference to the roundness of a well-fed body). Fat, in the same text is שמן [oily](/keys/ShMN), olive oil, and the occult meaning of this relates also to Venus, to whom the olive was sacred. See the dove and olive branch in the story of Noah. "Royal dainties" is equal to [214](214), the number of רוח, [Ruach](/keys/RVCh) or Air, the element of Libra which is ruled by Venus.

---

### [el-ginnath agoz](/keys/AL.GNTh.AGVZ) - אל גנת אגוז
> the garden of nuts. [Song of Solomon 6:11](http://biblehub.com/songs/6-11.htm). According to the Zohar, this refers to Yesod, "seed principle", is the clue to the inner meaning. see [1125](1125).

---

### [or ha-car](/keys/OVR.HKR) - עור הכר
> skin of a lamb.

---

### [qav ha-shamayin](/keys/QV.HShMIM) - קו השמים
> The rule of heaven.

---

### [rosh](/keys/RASh) - ראש
> head; chief, principal. Also beginning, choicest, best, division, company.

---

### [Rawtzone ha-qahdome](/keys/RTzVN.HQDVM) - רצון הקדום
> the Primal Will.

---

### [shawar](/keys/ShAR) - שאר
> to remain, be left. also שאר sheawr. remnant; rest, remainder. [Isaiah 10:21, 22](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=isaiah%2010%3A21-22&version=ESV): *"The remnant shall return, even the remnant of Jacob, unto the might God. For though thy people Israel be as the sand of the sea, yet a remnant of them shall return: the consumption decreed shall overflow with righteousness."*

> [Isaiah 4:3](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/4-3.htm): *"And it shall come to pass, that he that is left in Zion, and he that remains in Jerusalem, shall be called holy, even every one that is written among the living in Jerusalem."*

> [Daniel 7:7](http://biblehub.com/daniel/7-7.htm): *"After this I saw visions in the night, and behold, a fourth beast, dreadful and terrible, and exceedingly strong; it hand great iron teeth -- it devoured and broke in pieces, and stamped the remainder with its feat, and it was different from all the beast that were before it; and it had then horns."*

---

### [sheayer](/keys/ShAR) - שאר
> flesh, body; blood relation, kinsman. True alchemy is the embodiment of spirit (Shin) as Mercury (Aleph = Uranus, higher octave of Mercury) into the blood, which regenerates the heart (Resh). [Leviticus 18:6](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/18-6.htm): *"None of you shall approach to any that is near of kin to him, to uncover their nakedness: I am the Lord."*

---

### [seore](/keys/ShAR) - שאר
> leaven, yeast; fermentation, swelling sustenance, alimentation (in reference to the roundness of a well-fed body. compare the Jacobs blessing: *"out of Asher -- his bread shall be fat, and he shall yield royal dainties."*

> Remember that corn, wine and oil are directly associated with weighing and measuring, in the symbolism of the third seal, according to [Revelation 6:6](http://biblehub.com/revelation/6-6.htm): *"And I heard a voice in the midst of the 4 beasts say, a measure of wheat for a penny, and three measures of barley for a penny; and see thou hurt not the oil and the wine."* Fermentations is Capricorn, the exaltation of Mars. see notes on Nun, the night house of Mars in the Book of Tokens). Nun means "to sprout", like yeast.

> Also with different vowel point: to be hot, to ferment. [Exodus 12:15](http://biblehub.com/exodus/12-15.htm): *"Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread. On the first day you shall remove leaven out of your houses, for if anyone eats what is leavened, from the first day until the seventh day, that person shall be cut off from Israel."*

---

### [shane ha-olayl](/keys/ShIN.HOVLL) - שין העולל
> urine of the infant or urine of the babe. This is Raymond Lully's name for the alchemical first matter. Note that ShIN are the letters of the element Fire, or Shin (#[360](360)). Lully spells it also נער שין הנער ([1005](1005)). It also means "boy, lad, youth; servant, retainer; scattering, scattered one." see [685](685), [320](320). See the "boy" pictured in [Key 20](20) (Shin). Here is another translation might be: "fire of the boy" or "infant fire" see [148](148), [74](74), [141](141), [631](631).

---

### [Shekinah Ilahah](/keys/ShKINH.OILAH) - שכינה עילאה
> The Superior Shekinah. A name applied by Qabalist to Binah.

---

### [temunah](/keys/ThMVNH) - תמונה
> appearance, form; image, likeness, shape.

---

### [ha-chokmah techayeah](/keys/HChKMH.ThChIH) - החכמה תחיה
> wisdom gives life. [Ecclesiastes 7:12](http://biblehub.com/ecclesiastes/7-12.htm): *"For wisdom is a defense, and money is a defense: but the excellency of knowledge is, that wisdom gives life to them that have it."* Wisdom is the Life-force, Chaiah in Chokmah. see [23](23), [78](78).

---

### [athenim](/keys/AThNIM) - אתנים
> strong, robust (ones). Those in whom the lifeforce has sprouted as divine volition (Geburah, sphere of Mars). They are regulated by balance. see [K.D.L.C.K. 178]

---

### [Sar](/keys/ShAR) - שאר
> Night demon of 1st decanate of Pisces. This decanate is ruled by Jupiter ([Key 10](10)) and Neptune ([Key 12](12)). It indicates that body-building activities by night ([Key 18](18)) can be hampered by lack of knowledge of the law of cycles and the stability of mental reversal by day. A word to the wise. *"Equilibrium (Libra) is the secret of the great work."* Pisces is alchemical multiplication. see [259](259).

---

### [detzak adhash beachab](/keys/DTzK.ODSh.BAChB) - דצך עדש באחב
> The 10 plagues of Egypt: a Notariqon, formed by taking the first letter of each word. see NGP [plague](/keys/NGP). see [981](981).

---

### [ak](/keys/AKf) - אך
> but, only, surely, indeed, again, once more [Kaph = 500]. see [21](21). [Exodus 10:17](http://biblehub.com/exodus/10-17.htm): *"Now forgive my sin once more and pray to the Lord your God to take this deadly plague away from me."*

---

## Greek

---

### [Grammateia](/greek?word=grammateia) (Gr) - γραμματεια
> lettering, use of letters.

---

### [Jaspis](/greek?word=iaspis) (Gr) - ἴασπις,
> precious stone; jasper. The first foundation of the holy city. [Revelation 21:19](http://biblehub.com/revelation/21-19.htm): *"And the foundations of the city wall were decorated with every precious stone, the first foundation, Jasper; the second, sapphire; the third challendony; the forth, emerald."*

---

### [Ho anomos](/greek?word=o+anomos) (Gr) - ὁ ἄνομος
> the lawless one. [2 Thessalonians 2:8](http://biblehub.com/2_thessalonians/2-8.htm): *"And then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord Jesus will kill with the breath of his mouth and bring to nothing by the appearance of his coming."*

---

### [Ho planos](/greek?word=o+planos) (Gr) - ὁ πλάνος
> the deceiver, anti-Christ. [2 John 1:7](http://biblehub.com/2_john/1-7.htm): *"For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. Such a one is the deceiver and the antichrist."*

---

### [to pan](/greek?word=to+pan) (Gr) - το παν
> the all, the whole. This is the neuter of παν all (Latin omnia). see [46](46) (Latin), Neuter implies a combination of male and female principles, thus relating the balance represented by Lamed and Libra to the whole picture.

---

### See Also:

- [51](51)
- [6](6)
