## 507 - Five Hundred Seven
> (3x169)

### [Baali ha-shamaim](/keys/BOLI.HShMIM) - בעלי השמים
> Masters of the heavens, astrologers. A term used to describe the illuminati or adepts, those "new creatures" who have become masters of their own interior stars, which is a consequence of the meditation symbolized in [Key 17](17). They have linked themselves with the Ego in Tiphareth, which is a reflection of the self in Kether. see [1067](1067).

### [Sekel Mopeleh](/keys/ShKL.MVPLA) - שכל מופלא
> Admirable or Wonderful Intelligence. [Isaiah 9:6](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/9-6.htm). Title of Kether. On all planes is the contraction of power ([Kaph](keys/K)), at a point of condensation ([Tav](/keys/Th)) which, in relation to the stages of manifestation, becomes a point of radiation ([Resh](/keys/R)), created beings cannot attain to the essential reality of this "Primary Glory" because that reality transcends everyone of the limitations which characterize "created beings." It projects itself simultaneously through the Paths of [Aleph](/keys/A) (superconscious), [Beth](/keys/B) (self-conscious) and [Gimel](/keys/G) (subconscious). It is present in human personalty as Yekhidah, The Self (in Atziluth), as the "seed atom," continuous throughout in the whole series of incarnations (in Briah), as the "thousand petaled Lotus" within the etheric-astral vehicle surrounding the physical body (in Yetzirah), and as the pineal gland or "third eye" (in Assiah). see [157](157), [620](620), [1032](1032), [876](876), [579](579), [21](21), [32](32), [78](78), [483](483), [111](111).

> *"It is the Admirable Intelligence, without beginning, without end, imparting understanding; itself beyond comprehension."* [Meditations of the Paths of Wisdom].

### [Zakh](/keys/ZKf) - זך
> pure, clear, transparent, innocent.

### [be-aor penne melek chaiim](/keys/BAVR-PNI.MLK.ChIIM) - באור פני מלך חיים
> "in the light of the King's countenance is life". [Proverbs 16:15](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/16-15.htm). The king is Tiphareth, the light is Kether. The verse concludes: "and his favor is as a cloud of the latter rain." The "rain" is the solar radiance, falling in drops, or Yods.

### [sheor](/keys/ShAVR) - שאור
> that which causes ferment; yeast, leaven. Alternate spelling. see [501](501). The "light" is the ferment or leaven, which works to increase its influence in manifested forms. see [Matthew 12:33](), [455](455), [656](656), [148](148), [889](889).

### [ammudi shibeaw](/keys/OMVDI.ShBOH) - עמודי שבעה
> seven pillars. The seven pillars of wisdom. [Proverbs 9:1](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/9-1.htm). These are also the 7 interior "stars". see [585](585), I.R.Q. 221; [1986](1986) (greek).

### [Asshur](/keys/AShVR) - אשור
> Assyria. [Genesis 2:14](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-14.htm). "The third river of the Tigris; it runs along the east side of Asshur. And the forth river is the Euphrates."

> [Beginning of text missing]. [Ezekiel 31:34](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/31-34.htm): "Behold, Asshur was a cedar in Lebanon, with fair branches and a shady grove, and lofty in height; and her offshoot was among the thick bows. The waters made her grow, the deep of waters uplifted her, the river ran round about her plant." He comments: The rational is called "a cedar in Lebanon", the "offshoot among the thick bows", signifies the knowledge of the memory, which are in this very plight.

> This is still clearer in [Isaiah 19:23](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/19-23.htm) "In that day shall there be a path from Egypt to Asshur, and Asshur shall come into Egypt, and Egypt into Asshur, and the Egyptians shall serve Asshur. {[24](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/19-24.htm)} In that day shall Israel be the third with Egyptians and with Asshur, a blessing in the midst of the land, {[25](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/19-25.htm)} that Jehovah Zebaoth shall bless saying, blessed by Egypt my people, and Asshur, the work of my and, and Israel mine inheritance." [Arcana Coecestia, p.59] see [380](380), [541](541).

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)