## 510 - Five Hundred Ten
2x5x51

---

### [Resh](/keys/RISh) - ריש
> Letter name Resh. countenance, head, face; beginning, commencement. see [440](440)

---

### [ab ve-am ben ve-bath](/keys/AB.VAM.BN.VBTh)
> Father and Mother, Son and Daughter. The Father is [Chokmah (2)](2), the Mother is [Binah (3)](3), the Son is [Tiphareth (6)](6); the Daughter is [Malkuth (10)](10). Note that the number 510 reduces to six, which is assigned to Tiphareth, the Sphere of the Sun. Father and Mother, Son and Daughter.

---

### [Daquth](/keys/DQVTh) - דקות
> thinness, fineness, subtlety, nicety. The primal radiance is subtle and hard to distinguish. Associated with the 4th Path. *[Gematria PFC]*

> *The Qabalah says that Chesed, mercy, is... usually translated as 'measuring, arresting or receiving.' One English translator renders the doctrine concerning the path as follows: 'The 4th path is called the Arresting or Receiving Intelligence, because it arises like a boundary to receive the emanation of the higher intelligences which are sent down to it. Here from all spiritual virtues emanate by way of subtlety, which itself emanates from the supreme crown.' [AE Waite]*

> *"The emphasis here is on the receptivity of Chesed, a grade allocated to Chesed would therefore be distinguished by this quality of receptivity. The spiritual powers exercised by an Exempt Adept are received from above... The agency whereby he broadcast them is called **דקות**, [dakkooth](/keys/DQVTh), literally 'smallness, thinness, fineness."*

> *"This agency we are told, itself emanates from the supreme crown, that is from Kether... The Exempt Adept uses this subtle emanation somewhat as a speaker in a broadcasting station uses the electric current... in this connection it is noteworthy that the noun **דקות**, [dakkooth](/keys/DQVTh), has the numeral value of 510, which is also the value of the Hebrew letter name **ריש**, [Resh](/keys/RISh), corresponding in astrology to the sun, and in Tarot to [Key 19](19).*

> *"[Dakkooth](/keys/DQVTh), subtlety, is a technical name for a force used in practical occultism, and that force is actually a form of solar radiation. The word is from the root **דק**, [dakh](/keys/DQ), 'fine, slender, lean.' The same word means 'dust'. In modern Hebrew it signifies 'minute. infinitesimal'.*

> *"Try to get a mental picture from these hints. Remember that the thing we are discussing is an actual reality. Metaphysically it is the radiant energy of [Kether](/keys/KThR), represented in [Key 0, the Fool](0), the White sun. But this is not merely metaphysical. It is a real force, properly designated by a Hebrew term signifying 'dust' because it is the fine-grained cosmic 'dust' which eventually takes form in all things. The work of Greater Adept is concerned with his control of the subtle something which is substance and energy at one and the same time." [True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p254]* see [104](104), [178](178), [528](528).

---

### [Derush](/keys/DRVSh) - דרוש
> allegorical sense; to examine, inquire, the allegorical sense of the scriptures. Thesis, dissertation, lecture, sermon. [K.D.L.C.K. p.12] *sensus allegoricus.*

---

### [Shiyr](/keys/ShIR) - שיר
> song, poem, hymn, singing. A suggestion of the correlation between sound and light. The vibration of the eternal radiance make Plato's "music of the spheres." Also means enchantment, mantra yoga. "The straight, or true, sense of sacred texts is in their allegorical meaning, and the secret of that meaning is the secret of mentally controlled vibration" *[Gematria PFC].* Also:

> - [Shiahr](/keys/ShIR). remnant remainder, relic. see [1394](1394).

---

###[Sarai](/keys/ShRI) - שרי
> princess. First name of Abraham's wife. *[Genesis 11:29](http://biblehub.com/genesis/11-29.htm) "The name of Abram's wife was Sarai".* see [505](505), [302](302) (Greek), [753](753).

---

### [Jeresh](/keys/IRSh) - ירש
> to seize, lay hold of, take possession of.

---

### [Dereshu](/keys/DRShV) - דרשו
> seek ye. *[Isaiah 34:16](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/34-16.htm). "seek ye out of the book of the Lord, and read."* see [1329](1329), [366](366).

---

### [Yeshir](/keys/IShR) - ישר
> to go straight, right, upright, to make smooth, make or lead straight, direct; to esteem, right, approve; to be pleasing, agreeable. see [541](541), [566](566), [732](732).

---

### [Saykel Qayam](/keys/ShKL.QIIM) - שכל קיים
> Stable intelligence. [23rd path](23) of Mem. Joins sphere of Mars (Will) to that of Mercury (Intellect). The secret of stability is the "Great Reversal", toward the source of all at the center. This Path is the "Power of Permanence" related to Rhythmic controlled vibration. It presupposes the work of the [17th Path](17) (Zain) which liberates subconsciousness from wrong selfconscious interpretations of appearance. The possessor of this Path gets the Pentagram right side up and then the "demon" vanishes. Thus he possesses the [Ars Notaria](104) which gives the true universal science -- the Art of reading the signs and characters with God has inscribed in every Kingdom of Nature. The seer is filled with the "Light of the World." Control of the serpent-power through concentration definitely limits the associative powers of subconsciousness. This intention is continually recollected at first but isolation or union with the SELF is the result. see [160](160), [440](440), [184](184), [45](45), [104](104), [430](430), [90](90), [250](250), [640](640), [53](53), [1070](1070), [40](40).

---

### [Tanniyn](/keys/ThNIN) - תנין
> serpent, crocodile, dragon, whale, sea monster.

> - [Genesis 1:21](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-21.htm) *"And God created great **whales**..."*
> - [Exodus 7:9](http://biblehub.com/exodus/7-9.htm) *"take thy rod, and cast it before Pharaoh, and it shall become a **serpent.**"*
> - [Isaiah 51:9](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/51-9.htm) *"Awake, awake, put on strength, O arm of the Lord; awake as in the ancient days, in the generations of old. Art thou not it that hath... wounded the **dragon**."*
> - [Ezekiel 29:3](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/29-3.htm) *"Thus said the Lord God, I am against thee, Pharaoh, king of Egypt, the great **dragon** that lies in the midst of his rivers, which has said, my river is mine own, and I have made it for myself."*
> - [Job 7:12](http://biblehub.com/job/7-12.htm) *"Am I sea, or the **monster** of the deep, that you put me under guard?"*

> A symbol of the cosmic vibratory radiance, the serpent power. see [358](358), [409](409), [1160](1160), [975](975) (Greek). Serpent, dragon.

---

### [Taphel](/keys/ThPL) - תפל
> slime, unseasoned, tasteless, untempered mortar. As a figure of speech, taphel means "folly; licentiousness; uncontrolled desire."

> - *[Job 6:6](http://biblehub.com/job/6-6.htm) "Can **that which is unsavory** be eaten without salt...?"* Originally signified something viscous or slimy. Employed figuratively, means "frivolity." Refers to the avoidance of physical impurity as preparation for initiation.
> -  And in *[Ezekiel 13:11](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/13-11.htm) "Say unto them which daub it with **untempered mortar,** that it [the wall] shall fall: there shall be an overflowing shower; and you, O great hailstones, shall fall; and a stormy wind shall rend it."* This has significance in Freemasonry.

> There is a hint of the same notion in some versions of [Key 19](19).

---

## Greek/Latin

---

### Thura (Gr) - θυρα
> door, entrance of passage into any place; an epithet of Christ. *[John 10:7-9](http://biblehub.com/john/10-7.htm) "Then said Jesus again, 'indeed, I truly say to you, I am the door of the sheep. | All who come before me are thieves and robbers; but the sheep heard them not. | I am the door; if any one come in by me, he shall be saved, and shall come in, and go out, and find pasture."* see [3010](3010), [1480](1480) (Greek).

---

### Kronos (Gr) - κρονος
> The god Cronus (Saturnus in Latin). Kronos was the son of Uranos, and of Gaia (Earth). He was the Husband of Rhea, and father of Zeus. His age was the Golden age.

---

### Nux (Gr) - νυξ
> night; goddess of night. The Greek Dictionary gives: night, gloom, darkness, murkiness; the night of death, i.e. death itself; the netherworld. And, as a proper noun, the Goddess of Night, Daughter of Chaos. The Romans called her Nox. 

---

### Poihmata (Gr) - ποιηματα
> Things which have been made. [Romans 1:20](http://biblehub.com/romans/1-20.htm). The things which have been made reveal the invisibles.

---

### See Also:

- [51](51)
- [6](6)
