## 512 - Five Hundred Twelve
(2^9), or ([8](8)x[64](64)), or ([16](16)x[32](32)).

---

### [deybequth](/keys/DBQVTh) - דבקות
> adhesiveness, attachment; communion with God; devoutness; adhesio, cohesio. [from דבק, soldering; attachment, appendage, paste, putty]. see [106](106).

> Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.245 ] says they are chiefly attributed to "fathers" and "mothers" from the marks of their sequence, descending the tree as mercies and severities are the supernal parents of its body. He refers to the word נפל (#[160](160)).

---

### [Shakhadar](/keys/ShChDR) - שחדר
> Angel of the 3rd decanate of Libra. This decanate is ruled by Mercury and suggest qualities of: logical, perceptive, and impartial. Alert watchfulness of actual conditions is combined with the Venusian quality of imagination. The third decanate of Libra is also represented by the 4 of Swords or Chesed, sphere of memory, in Yetzirah, the formative world. the constructive use of memory, beneficence and the ability to partake of eternal supply are related to the human discriminatory activity. It is the power of suggestion, selfconscious attention to particular idea, which acts upon the formative substance to bring these ideas into a active expression. The expansiveness of Jupiter, without bounds, would negate or destroy form and detail. Its positive expression brings rest from sorrow, yet after and through it; relief from anxiety, rest after illness and quietness. Its negative aspect is in harmony, unsettled conditions, disorder and lose.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [A.C.R.C. Hoc universi compendium unius mihi sepulchrum feci](/latin?word=ACRC+Hoc+universi+compendium+unius+mihi+sepulchrum+feci) (Lt)
*"A.C.R.C. I made this tomb as a summary of the whole universe."* This is the engraving on the altar found in the Rosicrucian tomb. [[Fama Fraternitatis](https://archive.org/stream/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985#page/n23/mode/2up)]. See [23](23), [241](241), [489](489).

---

### See Also:

- [8](8)
