## 514 - Five Hundred Fourteen
> (2x257)

---

### [shihor](/keys/ShChIR) - שחיר
> black, charred, sootiness, dingy, melancholy. [Jeremiah 2:18](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/2-18.htm): *"And now what have you to do in the way of Egypt, to drink the waters of Shimor?..."* The waters of Shimor have to do with illusion. see [564](564).

---

### [Saykel Maamid](/keys/ShKL.MOMID) - שכל מעמיד
> Constituting Intelligence. 15th Path of Heh. Attributed to Aries, ruled by Mars. The dominate power in this path is the Mars-force, the active generative power in nature it links the radiant energy of the fixed stars or suns (Chaiah in Chokmah) with the Central Self (Ego in Tiphareth) with distributes it to all human personalities. All personal experience of vision is a particular expression of the cosmic power-to-see. To the degree that things are seen as they really are, to that degree the personality is a channel for the one, original creative power. see [164](164), [10](10), [423](423), [200](200), [223](223), [219](219), [380](380).

> [beginning of text missing] *"...call kaivala, isolation. For he who would really be a conscious creator must stand alone. Creation begins at a point where there is nothing other than the creator. All this is set forth in the symbolism of the Hermit (the forth letter of MOMID). The last letter of MOMID looks ahead to the path we have yet to consider... it governs the generation of mental images by subconsciousness in response to impulses and suggestions originating in the self-conscious field. Its activity is summed up in the one word, imagination."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), pp.443-446]

---

### [yadawk](/keys/IDKf) - ידך
> thy hand. [Psalm 138:7](http://biblehub.com/psalms/138-7.htm): *"Though I walk in the midst of trouble, thou will revive me: thou shall stretch forth thy hand against the wrath of mine enemies, and thy right hand shall save me."* Yod is assigned to Chokmah, IH, Yah, the father. From which emanate the path of Heh, the Emperor, the Constituting Intelligence. see [750](750) (Greek).

---

### [achad rosh](/keys/AChD.RASh) - אחד ראש
> "one principle, one head. God the father is the head of the one creative principle. see [2945](2945), [425](425), [926](926), [440](440), [1052](1052), [1065](1065).

---

### [hallu-al be-qadesho](/keys/HLLV-AL.BQDShV) - הללו־אל בקדשו
> *"Praise God in his sanctuary (praise him in the firmament of his power".* [Psalm 150:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/150-1.htm). The "sanctuary" includes a vision of the whole.

---

### [haqoth](/keys/ChQVTh) - חקות
> statute, laws. [the feminine singular of חקה enactment, ordinance, statute, law; custom, constitution. The masculine is חק with the additional meaning of "prescribed task; prescribed due; prescribed limit or boundary"]. The emperor is the law-giver (Key 4) and prescribes the boundary of his domain. [K.D.L.C.K. p.213] The text refers to [Leviticus 18:4](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/18-4.htm): *"Ye shall do my judgements and keep mine ordinances, to wake therein..."* And says that the masculine and feminine forms mentioned here refer to El-Chai (The Almighty) and Adonai (Lord) and to oral laws (heaven) and written laws (earth).

---

### [nahaelath IHVH](/keys/NChLTh.IHVH) - נחלת יהוה
> heritage of the Lord. [Psalm 127:3](http://biblehub.com/psalms/127-3.htm): *"Lo, children are a heritage of the Lord; the fruit of the womb is a reward."*

> The Zohar [II:188A, pp.217-218] comments: *"...the phrase 'heritage of the Lord' is an allusion to the 'bundle of souls in the world to come, and the passage indicates that it is children that make a man worthy of that heritage of the Lord. Hence happy is the man who is blessed with them and who trains them in the ways of the Torah."*

---

### [wet-kal-habehemah](/keys/VATh-KL-HBHMH) - ואת־כל־הבהמה
AND ALL THE CATTLE. [Genesis 8:1](https://biblehub.com/genesis/8-1.htm): *"And God remembered Noah, and every living thing, and all the cattle that was with him in the ark: and God made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters asswaged"*

---

### [watiqah](/keys/VThQCh) - ותקח
then she took. [Genesis 3:6](https://biblehub.com/genesis/3-6.htm): *"And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her; and he did eat"*

---

### [taamod](/keys/ThOMD) - תעמד
stay. [Genesis 19:17](https://biblehub.com/genesis/19-17.htm): *"And it came to pass, when they had brought them forth abroad, that he said, Escape for thy life; look not behind thee, neither **stay** thou in all the plain; escape to the mountain, lest thou be consumed."*

---

### [tiq'chu](/keys/ThQChV) - תקחו
take. [Genesis 34:9](https://biblehub.com/genesis/34-9.htm): *"And make ye marriages with us, and give your daughters unto us, and take our daughters unto you."*

---

### [weshibru](/keys/VShBRV) - ושברו
and buy. see also [weshibru-lanu](/keys/VShBRV-LNV) ([600](600)). [Genesis 42:2](https://biblehub.com/genesis/42-2.htm): *"And he said, Behold, I have heard that there is corn in Egypt: get you down thither, **and buy** for us from thence; that we may live, and not die."*

---

### See Also:

- [10](10)
- [Bible Wheel: 514](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=514)
