## 520 - Five Hundred Twenty
> (5x8x13)

---

### [kosher](/keys/KShR) - כשר
> ritually clean, wholesome.

---

### [kawsher](/keys/KShR) - כשר
> legitium; to be right, fit, to succeed, prosper.

---

### [kisher](/keys/KShR) - כשר
> to prepare, make fit, make proper. In [Esther 8:5](http://biblehub.com/esther/8-5.htm): *"If it please the king, she said, 'and if he regards me with favor and thinks it the right thing to do, and if he is pleased with me, let an order be written..."*

> And in [Ecclesiastes 11:6](http://biblehub.com/ecclesiastes/11-6.htm): *"Sow your seed in the morning, and at evening let not your hands be idle, for you do not know which will succeed, whether this or that, or whether both will do equally well."*

---

### [methanikah](/keys/MThNIK) - מתניך
> "thy loins" [Jeremiah 1:17](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/1-17.htm): *"Thou therefore gird up thy loins, and arise, and speak unto them all that I command thee: be not dismayed at their faces, lest I confound thee before them."* This has to do with a transmutation of the Mars-force, seated within the "loins", which are ruled by Sagittarius. This implies the probation and testing by the Holy Guardian Angel via the process of alchemical incineration. see [162](162), [1890](1890) (Greek).

---

### [Koresh](/keys/KRSh) - כרש
> Cyrus, king of Persia. [Ezra 1:2](http://biblehub.com/ezra/1-2.htm): *"Thou saith Cyrus King of Persia, the Lord God of heaven has given me all the kingdoms of the earth; and he has charged me to build him a house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah."* Jerusalem means "abode of peace; Judah means "praised, celebrated" and is connected with the sun and with Leo and alchemical digestion. see [586](586), [30](30); [790](790) (Greek).

> In [Isaiah 45:1](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/45-1.htm), Cyrus is called משיחו [meshiachu](/keys/MShIChV) , "his anointed", or "hu messiah". *"Thus says the Lord to his anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand have held, to subdue nations before him; and I will set loose the loins of kings, to open before him the two leaved gates; and the gates shall not be shut."* see [358](358).

---

### [thah'an](/keys/ThON) - תען
> "Let sing" (speak, proclaim). [Psalm 119:172](http://biblehub.com/psalms/119-172.htm): *"My tongue shall speak of thy word: for all thy commandments are righteousness."* [As a masculine noun (medieval) fasting, fastday]

---

### [dimayoth](/keys/DMOVTh) - דמעות
> tears. [Psalm 80:5](http://biblehub.com/psalms/80-5.htm): *"Thou feeds them with the bread of tears, and gives them tears to drink in great measure."* note DM = blood. see [44](44), [78](78).

---

### [RC + RC + IO](/keys/RK.RK.IO) - רך רך יע
The three Rosicrucian Brethren who remained the second year, after the departure of brothers B. and D.

> [Fama Fraternitatis](https://archive.org/details/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985): *"These six articles they bound themselves one to another to keep; five of the Brethren departed, only the Brethren B. and D. remained with the Father, Brother R.C., a whole year. **When these likewise departed, then remained by him his cousin [R.C.] and Brother I.O., so he hath all the days of his life with him two of his Brethren.**"*

---

### See Also:

- [52](52)
- [7](7)
