## 521 - Five Hundred Twenty-One
> (prime)

---

### [Yehonathan](/keys/IHVNThN) - יהונתן
> Jonathan. "God is the Giver." Beloved and loyal friend of David and son of Saul in the Biblical Allegory ([1 Samuel 14:6](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/14-6.htm)): *"and Jonathan said to the young man that bare his armor, come, and let us go over unto the Garrison of these uncircumcised: it may be that the Lord will work for us: For there is no restraint to the Lord to save by many or by few."*

> Because 521 reduces to 8, Jonathan is a symbol of alchemical Mercury. D.D. Bryant: *"Take particular note of Jonathan's love for this represents the undying affinity that Mercury has for Salt. 'He loved him as he loved his own soul, (salt)'... All these various obscuratons, where David goes secretly to meet Jonathan, or flees to mountains and caves, pursued by Saul, are illustrative of what goes on in the Vase of Art... in his lamentation over the deaths of Saul and Jonathan, David plainly shows the mythic alchemical nature of both, when he sings, Saul and Jonathan were lovely and sweet in their lives, and in their death they were not divided: 'They were swifter, that eagles and stronger than lions'..."* [D.D. Bryant, The Philosopher's Stone, IX]. see [14](14), [24](24). Note that lion = Teth and eagle = Nun.

---

### [Vasariah](/keys/VShRIH) - ושריה
> "God the just." 32nd Shemhamphorash; angel of the 2 of Pentacles (Chokmah of Assiah). 156°-160° THMIS. April 20, July ?1?, September 11, November 22, February 2. Against those who attack us unjustly, and to obtain the grace of those who have recourse to the clemency of ???, it is necessary for this purpose to name the name of the person who attacks you and cite the motive. 10:00-10:40. [Psalm 23:4] "For the word of the Lord (IHVH) is upright; and all his work is done in faithfulness (truth)." Rules justice; influences through the nobility, jurists, magistrates and advocates. Person born: good memory, speaks with faculty. is amiable, spiritual and modest. see [965](965), [1525](1525). According to Godwin, angel of the 2nd quinance of Capricorn; angel by night of the 2 of Pentacles (Mathers). see [506](506).

---

### [mahashue ha-leben](/keys/MChShVP.HLBN) - מחשוף הלבן
> nudatio [bare] candoris shining white]. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.527] attributes this phrase to Kether, the highest crown, because light is manifested therefrom. In the Zohar, however, Tiphareth is so-called, because it too manifest light.

---

### [esh yored](/keys/ASh-IVRD) - אש־יורד

> esh yored, cont. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.162] says the Qabalistic writing Raja Mehimna calls Binah by this name, for it denotes mercy.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [arton](/greek?word=arton) (Gr) - ἄρτον
Bread. See [78](78).

- [Matthew 6:11](https://biblehub.com/matthew/6-11.htm) *"Give us this day our daily bread."*
- [Matthew 7:9](https://biblehub.com/matthew/7-9.htm): *"Or what man is there of you, whom if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone?"*

---

### [pylai](/greek?word=pulai) (Gr) - πύλαι
Gates. [Matthew 16:18](https://biblehub.com/matthew/16-18.htm): *"And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it."*

---

### [Paradeison](/greek?word=paradeison) (Gr) - Παράδεισον
Paradise. [2 Corinthians 12:4](https://biblehub.com/2_corinthians/12-4.htm): *"How that he was caught up into paradise, and heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter."*

---

### See Also:

- [8](8)
- [BibleWheel: 521]()

