## 523 - Five Hundred Twenty-Three (prime)

---

### [Koheneth ha-Gadhol](/keys/KHNTh.HGDVL) - כהנת הגדול
> High Priestess; title of Tarot Key 2, attributed to Gimel, i.e. universal subconscious memory.

---

### [phayru uraybu + (chaiah)](/keys/PRV.VRBV.ChIH) - פרו ורבו חיה
> be fruitful and multiply plus the life-force. It is the characteristic or light to extend itself through all its centers of manifested life. The life-force is centered in Chokmah, the father. see [500](500), [23](23).

---

### [teimawn + Gimel + khawzawh](/keys/ThIMN.G.ChZH) - תימן ג חזה
> south plus camel plus the have a vision of. South is the direction of the sun or Tiphareth; Gimel is the Uniting Intelligence linking the universal Self in Kether with the Ego in Tiphareth; the vision of the prophet is in truth a recollection of that which seems to belong to the past. see [500](500), [20](20), [3](3).

---

### [betoke hamayim](/keys/BThVK.HMIM) - בתוך המים
> "in the midst of the waters" [Genesis 1:6](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"And Elohim said, 'Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters.'"* See [90](90), [95](95).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"בתוך המים, in the center of the waters... This is to say, in examining the roots and the figurative and hieroglyphic sense, in the sympathetic and central point of universal passivity; which agrees perfectly with a rarifying and dilating force such as Moses understood. But the Hellenist having considered it proper to change this intelligible force into a sentient solidity, have been led to change all the rest. The word מבדל [slacking, loosening](/keys/MBDL), which is obviously a continued facultative, according to the excitative form, expressing the action of making a separation exist among diverse natures, they have changed into a substantive, and have seen only a separation produced by a kind of wall that they have created. the Arabic verb... which is attached to the same root as the Hebrew בדל ([36](36)), expresses a mutation of nature or a place."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.37](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/36)]

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [grammatica](/greek?word=grammatikh) (Gr) - γραμματική
Grammar. *"In linguistics, grammar (from Greek: γραμματική) is the set of structural rules governing the composition of clauses, phrases, and words in any given natural language. The term refers also to the study of such rules, and this field includes phonology, morphology, and syntax, often complemented by phonetics, semantics, and pragmatics."* [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grammar)

> *"The word grammar has come down to us from the Greeks, through the Latins; but its origin goes back much further. Its real etymology is found in the root GR, KR, QR (gre, cre, kre), which in Hebrew, Arabic or Chaldaic, presents always the idea of engraving, of character or of writing, and which as verb is used to express, according to the circumstances, the action of engraving, of characterizing, of writing, of proclaiming, of reading, of declaiming, etc. The Greek word γραμματική signifies properly the science of characters, what is to say, of the characteristic signs by means of which man expresses his thought."* [[Fabre d'Olivet, The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p60](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/n81)]

---

### See Also:

- [10](10)
- [1](1)
