## 526 - Five Hundred Twenty-Six
> (2x263)

---

### [du partzuphin](/keys/DV.PRTzVPIN) - דו פרצופין
> the two faces. King and Queen = Tiphareth and Malkuth. [Franck: The Kabballah pp.168-169]: *"The 'king' and the 'queen' commonly called also the 'two faces' דו פרצופין (doo partsufin), form together a pair whose task is to pour forth constantly upon the world new grace, and through their union to continue the work of the creation. But the mutual love which impels them to this work, burst forth in two ways, and produces consequently fruits of two kinds. Sometimes it comes from above, going from the husband to the wife, and from there to the entire universe; that is to say, existence and life, starting from the depths of the intelligible world, tend to multiply more and more in the objects of nature. Sometimes, on the contrary, it comes from below, going form the wife to the husband, from the real world to the ideal world, from earth to heaven, and brings back to the bosom of God the beings capable of demanding their return."*

---

### [Koresh](/keys/KVRSh) - כורש
> Cyrus, king of Persia. [Isaiah 44:28](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/44-28.htm): *"That said of Cyrus, he is my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure: even saying to Jerusalem, thou shall be built: and to the temple, thy foundation shall be laid."* Variant spelling, see [520](520), [540](540) (korshid), [950](950), [956](956), [[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyrus_the_Great)].

> Fabre d'Olivet says: *"כו. Every Assimilating, compressing, restraining force: the natural faculty which fetters the development of bodies and draws them back to their elements. Root analagous to the root כא, but modified by the presence of the convertible sign ו. The Arabic root [word] has certainly developed the same universal ideas in the ancient idiom; but in the modern, it is restricted to characterize a sort of cauterization. The idea of combustion, of burning is expressed in particular, by the root [arabic], and by the word [arabic] is understood in the general, that which is strong, vigorous, violent, extreme. כור: A furnace."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 370-371](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/370)]

> *"רש. The sign of movement proper, united to that of relative movement, constitutes a root which is hieroglyphically symbolized by a point at the middle of a circle: it is the center unfolding the circumference: the fundamental principle."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 370-371](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/454)]

Thus, "Burns like the Sun."

---

### [sayroc](/keys/ShRVK) - שרוך
> Siroc; a shoe-latchet. In American Freemasonic lodges, it is a significance word in the ?Mark Master degree? (It is the name of the true grip of a Mark Master Mason, meaning "mark well"). Possibly a veiled reference to its metathesis, כורש, [Cyrus](/keys/KVRSh). [Mackey: Encyclopedia] *"It.... refers to the declaration of Abraham (#[248](248)) to Melchizedek (#[294](294)), that of the goods which had been captured he would 'not take from a thread even to a shoe-latchet', that is, nothing even of the slightest value."*

---

### [abrakala](/keys/ABRAKALA) - אבראכאלא
> Original form of Abracadabra.

---

### [shaypiphon](/keys/ShPIPVN) - שפיפון
> cerastes, horned adder. Minus the Vav in [Genesis 49:17](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-17.htm): *"Dan shall be a serpent by the way, an adder in the path, that bites the horse-heels, so that his rider shall fall backward."* A symbol of the Egyptian royal serpent and stands for the sign of Scorpio, and is associated with the Tribe of [Dan](/keys/DN) (דן). see [54](54).

---

### [masheqoph](/keys/MShQVP) - משקוף
> superliminare. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.558] attributes this word to Yesod and cites [Exodus 12:7](http://biblehub.com/exodus/12-7.htm): *"Then they are to take some of the blood and put it on the tops and sides of the door-frames of the houses where they eat the lambs."* He says that sometimes Yesod is raised above Netzach and Hod, as a doorpost.

---

### [kidmuthenu](/keys/KDMVThNV) - כדמותנו
After our likeness. [Genesis 1:26](https://biblehub.com/genesis/1-26.htm): *"And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth."*

---

### [eth-mikseh](/keys/ATh-MKSH) - את־מכסה
COVERING. [Genesis 8:13](https://biblehub.com/genesis/8-13.htm): *"And it came to pass in the six hundredth and first year, in the first month, the first day of the month, the waters were dried up from off the earth: and Noah removed the **covering** of the ark, and looked, and, behold, the face of the ground was dry."*

---

### [rakashu](/keys/RKShV) - רכשו
they had gathered. [Genesis 12:5](https://biblehub.com/genesis/12-5.htm): *"And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all their substance that **they had gathered,** and the souls that they had gotten in Haran; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan; and into the land of Canaan they came."*

---

### [qiwithi](/keys/QVIThI) - קויתי
I have waited. An aside spoken during Jacob's blessing of his childred. [Genesis 49:18](https://biblehub.com/genesis/49-18.htm): *"I have waited for thy salvation, O LORD."*

---

### [hashqini-na](/keys/HShQINI-NA) - השקיני
give me to drink, please. see also [hashqini](/keys/HShQINI) ([475](475)). [Genesis 24:43](https://biblehub.com/genesis/24-43.htm): *"Behold, I stand by the well of water; and it shall come to pass, that when the virgin cometh forth to draw water, and I say to her, **Give me, I pray thee,** a little water of thy pitcher **to drink**"*

---

### See Also:

- [13](13)
- [4](4)
- [BibleWheel Gematria Database: 526](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=526)
