## 528 - Five Hundred Twenty-Eight
> (3x11x16). Σ[32](32) = 528. Mystic number of the 32nd Path of Tav.

---

### [Sekhel Qavua](/keys/ShKL.QBVO) - שכל קבוע
> Measuring, Cohesive, Receptacular, Arresting, Receiving, Settled, or Constant Intelligence of the 4th Path of Chesed. see [178](178), [72](72).

> *"It is so called because from thence is the origin of all beneficent power of the subtle emanations of the most abstract essences which emanate one from another by the power of the Primordial Emanation."* These are powers of Chokmah, powers of the universal light-force which is also the life-force of mankind. These beneficent powers emanate from one another by the power of the Primordial Emanation, Kether. They are abstract essences because they are subdivisions or specializations of the life-force, like waves in an ocean, or currents within it, though not really separate from the whole expanse & depth of the sea. The possessor of this path is linked to the cosmic seat of memory, where the "Laws of Nature" are rooted. His actions express beneficence and compassion.

> *"It is the Cohesive Intelligence receiving that which comes from above and measuring all power to those who wait below."* [Meditations on the Path of Wisdom]

---

### [Hogenth](/keys/HOGNTh) - העגנת
> Haagenti; Goetic demon by night of the 3rd decanate of Cancer. The letters of the demon's name suggest a perversion of the power of inner vision (Heh) interpreting outer appearance (Ayin), resulting in false memory (Gimel) of the purposes of reproduction (Nun), thus freezing personal consciousness from further growth (Tav). The 3rd decanate of Cancer is ruled by Neptune and Jupiter and has the qualities: sympathetic, courteous, ceremonious. The influence of the demon suggest subconscious imbalance, resulting in negative aspects of these qualities. In the Tarot minor arcana this decanate is assigned to the 4 of Cups. This represents Chesed, or cosmic memory, in Briah, the creative world. The demon's influence can lead to material gain, but through injustice; sorrows resulting from satisfaction of [text ends]

---

### [maftayakh](/keys/MPThCh) - מפתח
> key. This is the key of the knowledge of immortality as well as the key of the House of David, *"And that house is the temple, not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. Thus the Key is the secret which gives power to open the temple, and enter therein, even to the Holy of Holies. Here is a clue the reader will do well to follow up in his meditations."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p.93] see [954](954), [273](273) (Greek).

---

### See Also:

- [32](32)
- [15](15)
- [6](6)
