## 534 - Five Hundred Thirty-Four
> (2x3x89). 3-4-5 triangle

> - 3 = vertical = Osiris = אב = Father
> - 4 = the horizontal = Isis = אימא = Mother
> - 5 = the hypotenuse = Horus = בן = son.

> The area is 6, the perimeter 12. The angle of base and hypotenuse is [37](37) = הבל (transitory breath); the angle of hypotenuse and perpendicular is 53 = אבן = stone; the angle of perpendicular and horizontal is 90 = מים = water = Tzaddi = fishhook. Note that the constant relation between perpendicular and base is expressed by 90 = Tzaddi, which, according to the Zohar consists of Nun surmounted by Yod, representing together the male and female principles. 90 is also the value of יכין [Jakin](/keys/IKIN) ("firm one"), of [sod havog](/keys/SVD.HVVG) the mystery of sex, a technical name of Qabalah, of מים [mem](/keys/MIM), water, etc. The Tarot Keys are [Key 12](12), (מים), and [Key 17](17) (Tzaddi).

> The relation between Isis and Hours, the ascending hypotenuse, or son, is expressed by 37, which as הבל transitoriness, or continual change of form and state, but as יחידה reminds us of the unchanging self, the indivisible one, persisting throughout forms. This transitory character is in contrast to the stability and solidity of 53 = אבן stone (form a root meaning "to build") and this "stone" is the "head of the corner". Note that 53 is also ἀκακία, acacia, guilelessness, from Ἀκάκιος, without evil, unknowing of ill.

### [metzudath](/keys/MTzDTh) - מצדת
The Stronghold. [2 Samuel 5:7](http://biblehub.com/2_samuel/5-7.htm): *"Nevertheless David took the strong hold of Zion: the same is the city of David."*

## Greek/Latin:

### [Eureka](/greek?word=eureka) (Gr) - Εύρηκα
> I have found it! *"Freemasonry preserves the tradition that when Pythagoras discovered the secret of his triangle he shouted, "Eureka!" The Greek word is itself a formula for this triangle, since its number is 534, whose digits expresses the unit value of the tree sides of the triangle."* [True and Invisible, page 74]

> *"The property of the right-angled triangle is itself a formula for the construction of such a triangle, because... 534 is a number whose digits give the values of the hypotenuse (5), the shorter side (3), and the longer side (4)."* [OP. Cit. page 187-188]. see [758](758).

### [logisasthai](/greek?word=logisasthai) (Gr) - λογίσασθαί
To think; to reckon; to consider. [2 Corinthians 3:5](http://biblehub.com/2_corinthians/3-5.htm): *"Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think any thing as of ourselves; but our sufficiency is of God"*

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)