## 536 - Five Hundred Thirty-Six
> (8x67)

---

### [masloth](/keys/MSLVTh) - מסלות
> highways, roads. The Sphere of the Zodiac attributed to Chokmah. It indicates whatever the life-force may be in itself, it is also identified with the radiant energy streaming from suns or stars. The life-force which is the power of formation is the same force which pours itself from innumerable suns. For us it is not only the energy of our sun, but also the energy of radiations from the cosmos which directly affect human vitality. Used in connection with the courses of the stars and the affairs of men in [Judges 5:20](http://biblehub.com/judges/5-20.htm): *"The stars in their courses fought against Sisera."*

> The same word is used figuratively in [Proverbs 16:17](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/16-17.htm): *"The highway (Masloth) of the upright is to depart from evil."* This heavenly order is a manifestation of the power of gravitation and the radiant energy of electro-magnetism. Because Chokmah is the Sphere of the Fixed Stars, Chokmah is the greater whole which includes the special Sphere of the Sun, Tiphareth, inasmuch as the sun is one of the stars. see [23](23).

---

### [chakmath ha-medidah](/keys/ChKMTh.HMDIDH) - חכמת המדידה
> geometry. The measurement of spatial relations is basic in practical occultism. This is linked to its source in the stars [Post-Talmudic]. see [124](124).

---

### [maqom-saphir](/keys/MQVM-SPIR) - מקום־ספיר
> place of sapphires. [Job 28:6](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"The stones of it are the place of sapphires, and it has dust of gold."*

> In the passage "the stones of it" is [אבניה], which breaks down into [אבן יה], [ehben Yah](/keys/ABN.IH). As Yah, is the special Divine Name attributed to Chokmah, and [אבן], expresses the union of the Father with the Son, or the union of Chokmah with Tiphareth, אנהיב, is a verbal symbol for that union. Chokmah, as the sphere of the fixed stars, is the greater whole that includes the special sphere of the sun, or Tiphareth, inasmuch as the sun is one of the fixed stars. see [68](68).

---

### [Beth-Eden](/keys/BITh-ODN) - בית־עדן
> House of Eden [Amos 1:5](http://biblehub.com/amos/1-5.htm). *"I will... cut off... him that holds the scepter of the House of Eden..."* A mystical reference to the garden mentioned in the Bible as being the first abode of humanity.

---

### [Olahm ha-Assiah](/keys/OVLM.HOShIH) - עולם העשיה
> The World of Action (Assiah), or the Material World. The commentary on this is the statement in [Proverbs 3:19](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/3-19.htm): יהוה בחכמה יסד ארץ, [Jehovah be-chokmah yasad eretz](/keys/IHVH.BChKMH.ISD.ARTz), Jehovah by (or, in) Wisdom hath founded the earth. What is indicated is that what we think of as the material world has its actual substance, or basis, in the radiant energy of Chokmah. Our personal life force is one form of that energy, and the physical things surrounding us are another form of the same energy. Assiah, or the world of action, is also called the world of shells. This refers to the world of matter made up of the grosser elements of the other three worlds. In it is also the abode of the evil spirits or "shells" called Qlippoth, the material shells.

---

### [shiyr-Jehovah](/keys/ShIR-IHVH) - שיר־יהוה
> Song of Jehovah [2 Chron. 29:27](http://biblehub.com/2_chronicles/29-27.htm); [Psalm 137:4](http://biblehub.com/psalms/137-4.htm). All manifestation is vibration. The universe is the "Song of Jehovah." see [270](270).

> [Psalm 137:4](http://biblehub.com/psalms/137-4.htm): *"How shall we sing the LORD'S song in a strange land?"* 'Strange Land' = [Admath Nekar](/keys/ADMTh.NKR). see [715](715)

> [beginning of text missing] *... sees under the sun, Resh. נכר is from a verbal root meaning to distinguish differences. By Tarot Keys: [13](13), [10](10), [19](19). That is the appearance of endless mutation, the turning wheel of change, the appearance of limitation (wall in Key 19). But when the wheel becomes the fairy-ring (under foot, viz. understood) then the land is no longer strange. The commentary on this is in [Proverbs 3:19](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/3-19.htm): 'By wisdom the Lord laid the earth's foundations, by his knowledge the deeps were divided, and the clouds let drop the dew.'*

> *Paul Case Notes: "The 'strange land' is the field of appearances produced by the serpent power, which is pictured in [Key 8](8) as the lion. When we are 'in' that land we are deceived by the appearances of separateness. Thus נכר, strange = רע, which is created [Isaiah 45:7](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/45-7.htm). It is the darkness. Yet נכר אדמה, strange land = 319 = life for evermore חיים על־עולם, the blessing of [Psalm 133](http://biblehub.com/psalms/133-3.htm). The clue is in נכר, 'strange', from a verbal root meaning to differentiate, to make distinctions. If we are in the state of consciousness where we are preoccupied with the differentiated appearances of multiplicity, we do to perceive that the world of Assiah, the world of making or construction, is really the song of Tetragrammaton, i.e. the harmonious concord of all the manifestations of the life-power. The song seems to be a discord, and the discord is evil or רע. Note, too, that אדמה 'land' is a metathesis of Adam האדם = 50 = the letter Nun, and also the gates of Binah, the mother, which are always represented by 50. Furthermore, the word for blood is probably a contraction of Adam, and certainly is derived form the root אדם, to be red. Here we have an allusion to the earthy, or carnal consciousness. While we are in this, we cannot sing the song of Tetragrammaton, that is, make our own personal 'makings' in unison with the song of Tetragrammaton... When we forget Zion, because we are 'in a strange land' we are in Babylon, i.e. confusion. Then all our constructions are faulty, and we cannot sing the song of Reality... But except Tetragrammaton build the house, they labor in vain that build it [Psalm 127:1](http://biblehub.com//.htm). The builder is Tetragrammaton, and all our building is clumsy unless our hands are consciously working as instruments of Tetragrammaton, and unless or conception of the material world is that it is truly the song of Tetragrammaton."* [Troward on Psalms, pp.178-192]

---

### [tallayth lebanah](/keys/TLITh.LBNH) - טלית לבנה
> a white cloak. Intimating Yesod, the purifying Intelligence. see [777](777).

---

### [Sekhel Nisyoni](/keys/ShKL.NSIVNI) - שכל נסיוני
> Intelligence of Probation, Tentative Intelligence, Intelligence of Temptation or Trial. The [25th path](25) of [Samekh](/keys/S). Connects the Egoic body (Sun) with the vital soul and its astral body (Moon). The Work of this path is a testing of those in whom is active the spirit of Mercy (The "compassionate"--Chasidim). To devote oneself wholly to receiving instruction from the One-Self, and to minister to the welfare of Humanity, is necessary. Instruction received must be tested in the fires of experience. One must practice directing the mental stream always in the way desired it should progress. The spirit test daily that we may interpret out experiences as cosmic events, as well as personal activities. Right recollectedness provides a clear pattern via the suggestion that one never can do anything of himself. Eternal being manifest itself in the special functions of temporal existence. It is the true foundation of personal attainment. see [176](176), [666](666), [120](120), [800](800), [60](60), [310](310), [216](216), [162](162), [166](166), [260](260).

> *"The path of the Intelligence of Probation or Trial, attributed to the letter Samekh follows the path of Imaginative Intelligence because it signifies the testing of the ideas and innovations suggested by the Imagination. It joins beauty to foundation because only by experiments, trials and test can the harmony of Tiphareth become actualized in the established certainty implied by the term foundation. Note that foundation is the propagative sephirah and you will have a clue to many problems."* [32 Paths].

> *"I am the Intelligence of Probation, proving all knowledge in the fires of experience."* [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom]

---

### [Shepa Neobedal](/keys/ShPO.NBDL) - שפע נבדל
> Mediating Influence. The [6th path](6) of [Tiphareth](/keys/ThPARTh). Shepa (ShPO), also means emanation. It is so called because it is the abundance of the increase of archetypal influence, and because it is the influence over the grafted shoots of the extended unities themselves [Yetzartic Text].

> Neobedal is from the ancient Hebrew word עבד, [Abad](/keys/OBD), "to work, to prepare, to make, to serve." It is used throughout the Bible in a great variety of shades of meaning. Tiphareth stands between what is above and what is below. The whole process whereby powers from above are concentrated in Tiphareth and diffused to planes below, is what is meant by "Light in Extension." see [86](86), [1081](1081), [548](548), [640](640), [214](214).

---

### [metzivath](/keys/MTzVTh) - מצות
> commandments, precepts. [Jeremiah 35:18](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/35-18.htm). That is legislation, in direct correspondence with [Key 11](11), Justice ([Lamed](/keys/L)). Also, with different vowel points MTzVTh means: strife, contention.

---

### [paytom, pehtom](/keys/PIThVM) - פיתום
> A magician; necromancer, conjurer, ventriloquist. [neo-Hebrew, Greek] The false magicians shall be tried by fire, in the meditating influence. Then darkness shall be dispelled, and they will walk the highways of righteousness, singing the Lord's song.

---

### [he-maon shemo](/keys/LMON.ShMV) - למען שמו
> for his name's sake. [Psalm 23:3](http://biblehub.com/psalms/23-3.htm): *"He restores my soul: he leads me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake."* see [349](349), [885](885).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Damaskos](/greek?word=damaskos) (Gr) - Δαμασκός
Damascus. (Hebrew דמשק [Dammaseq]) See [444](444). *"a very ancient ([Genesis 14:15](http://biblehub.com/genesis/14-15.htm)), celebrated, flourishing city of Syria, lying in a most lovely and fertile plain at the eastern base of Antilibanus. It had a great number of Jews among its inhabitants (Josephus, b. j. 2, 20, 2 cf. 7, 8, 7). Still one of the most opulent cities of western Asia, having about 109,000 inhabitants ('in 1859 about 150,000; of these 6,000 were Jews, and 15,000 Christians')"*

Spelled Δαμασκὸν ([386](386)) in [Acts 9:2](http://biblehub.com/acts/9-2.htm) and Δαμασκῷ ([1066](1066)) in [Acts 9:2](http://biblehub.com/acts/9-3.htm).

---

### [Petran](/greek?word=petran) (Gr) - πέτραν
Rock. [Matthew 7:24-25](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Matthew+7%3A24-25&version=WEB;KJV): *"Everyone therefore who hears these words of mine and does them, I will liken him to a wise man who built his house on a rock.  The rain came down, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house; and it didn’t fall, for it was founded on the rock."*

---

### See Also:

- [14](14)
- [5](5)
