## 546 - Five Hundred Forty-Six
> (2x3x91)

---

### [romess](/keys/RVMSh) - רומש
that creeps. [Genesis 1:30](https://biblehub.com/genesis/1-30.htm): *"And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to every thing **that creepeth** upon the earth, wherein there is life, I have given every green herb for meat: and it was so."*

---

### [Risha Dela](/keys/RIShA.DLA) - רישא דלא
> The Head Which is Not; a title of Kether.

---

### [luchoth haw-ebawnim](/keys/LChTh.HABNIM) - לחת האבנים
> the tables of stone. [Deuteronomy 9:11](https://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/9-11.htm): *"And it came to pass at the end of forty days and forty nights, that the Lord gave me the two tables of stone, even the tables of the covenant."* see [552](552).

---

### [mawthoq](/keys/MThVQ) - מתוק
> sweet, pleasant. [Judges 14:14](https://biblehub.com/judges/14-14.htm) *"And he said unto them, out of the eater came forth meat, and out the strong came forth sweetness. And they could not in three days expound the riddle."* Refers to the riddle of Samson.

---

### [shomer](/keys/ShVMR) - שומר
> watchman, keeper, guard, as in ShVMR IShRAL, (God) keeper of Israel. see [1087](1087), [545](545), [541](541), [540](540).

---

### [shimmur](/keys/ShMVR) - שמור
> custom; guarding, care, watching; removal of lees of wine, straining. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.721] connects this word with Malkuth, because it is the custodian of all other sephiroth, receiving their influence.

---

### [ha-yom ha-tikon](/keys/HIM.HThIKVN) - הים התיכון
> the Mediterranean sea. [ThIKVN = inner, central, middle]. The Mediterranean is that inner, central, middle sea which brother C.R. crossed from Egypt to Fez. see [486](486), [540](540).

---

### [olamuth](/keys/OLMVTh) - עלמות
> eternity.

---

### [awlaymuth](/keys/OLMVTh) - עלמות
> youthfulness; strength, vigor.

---

### [aelmwmoth](/keys/OLMVTh) - עלמות
> a musical term. Musical harmony and strength are associated with the ability to experience eternity.

---

### [Sharhiel](/keys/ShRHIAL) - שרהיאל
> Lesser assistant angel of Aries. Aries is ruled by Mars, with is connected with youthfulness, strength, and vigor.

> xxx [beginning of text missing] weight = substance = wealth. That is gravitation which is the descending power. see symbolism of Key 1. KBVD = [32](32) the paths, just as IHVH is the whole Tree. HAVN = ChN = [58](58) = KBVD = IHVH the stone. The value of the 4 words add to this sentence *"The vision ([71](71)) of the glory ([32](32)) of God ([26](26)) the ark"* ([417](417)).

---

### See Also:

- [15](15)
- [6](6)
- [BibleWheel: 546](https://www.biblewheel.com/GR/GR_Database.php?Gem_Number=546)
