## 548 - Five Hundred Forty-Eight
> (4x137)

### [Yahweh Eloah va-Da'ath](/keys/IHVH.ALVH.VDOTh) - יהוה אלוה ודעת
> That which was, is and will be, strength and knowledge. The Lord of Knowledge. The Divine Name attributed to Tiphareth and the 6 of Wands. The highest function of the Ego center in man is to be aware, at the level of self-consciousness, that the essence of humanity is the Universal Life of the Father-Mother.

### [Ani Yahweh asah kal-elleh](/keys/ANI.IHVH.OShH.KL-ALH) - אני יהוה עשה כל אלה
> I, Yahweh, do all these things. [Isaiah 45:7](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/45-7.htm). This is the secret of union with the Central Ego. All work is accomplished by the power of the Universal Self. The secret of Karma or union by work or action. *"The Father works and I work."*

### [Beth-Yod-Nun-Heh](/keys/BITh.IVD.NVN.HH) - בית יוד נון הה
> Binah spelt in full. Understanding. Consciousness that the One Reality is both strength and the very principle of knowledge, that is, the perfect manifestation of the Divine Understanding. Tiphareth is the result of the finitizing power of Binah.

### [ki-khavolath ahebah ani](/keys/KI.ChVLTh.AHBH.ANI) - כי חולת אהבה אני
> kay-haloth ahebah ani. For I am sick of love; I am love-sick [Song of Solomon 2:5]. The desire for light and the lack of it are both aspects of the One Reality. see [1081](1081), [45](45), [90](90), [52](52), [536](536), [548](548), [640](640), [214](214).

### [Beayriron](/keys/BOIRIRVN) - בעירירון
> Qlippoth of Aries. "The herd." Suggesting a misuse of the Mars-force, or divine strength. see [1198](1198).

### [Obiriron](/keys/OBIRIRVN) - עבירירון
> Qlippoth of Libra, suggesting a lack of balance and harmony exemplified in the sephirah of beauty- Tiphareth. The meaning is "the clayish ones"; clay suggest impermanence; in the Old Testament refers to the plastic material molded by God into Man, God being the potter. Likewise the "House of Clay" [Job 4:19](http://biblehub.com/job/4-19.htm).

> עב ([72](72)) = darkness, i.e. the darkness of ignorance veiling the light of truth. According to Kenneth Grant, it is also the serpent, the negative or feminine aspect of אוד, which is the magic light itself. Lack of balance regarding the directive action of the serpent power, which Lamed represents, is also unresponsiveness to the ox-goad of divine volition. see [1198](1198).

### [Shakherim](/keys/ShChRM) - שחרם
> the dawning-ones. see [3321](3321).

### [Hatzegenoth](/keys/HTzGNTh) - הצגנת
> Night demon of the 3rd decanate of Cancer. The letters of the demon's name suggest the perverted power of vision (Heh) to influence or shape meditation (Tzaddi), and evoke subconscious memory (Gimel) or reproductive evil (Nun), thus limiting the soul's capacity to grow (Tav). This decanate of Cancer is ruled by Neptune and Jupiter and has the qualities: sympathetic, courteous, cermonious. The influence of the demon suggest subconscious imbalance, resulting in negative aspect of these qualities. In the minor tarot arcana this decanate is assigned to the 4 of Cups. This represents the operation of Chesed or cosmic memory, in Briah, the creative world. The demon here can cause material gain, but through injustice; sorrows resulting form satisfaction of desire and getting what one has wanted but find no joy it. The remedy is to make personalty consciously receptive to the control of the one self, thus mental imagery in the substance of Briah becomes formed into right desires with are in harmony with cosmic principles. see [528](528) (העגנת).

## Greek

### [Uriel](/greek?word=urihl) (Gr) - υριηλ
> the angel Uriel. Archangel of Light, also called Lucifer, "Light-Bearer." see [248](248), [251](251).

### [heh krisis](/greek?word=h.krisis) (Gr) - η κρίσις
> the crisis, the judgement, the condemnation. [Acts 8:33](http://biblehub.com/acts/8-33.htm): *"In his humiliation his judgement was taken away; and who will tell of his generation? Because his life is taken from the earth."*

### [adelpheh](/greek?word=adelphh) (Gr) - ἀδελφὴ
> a sister, born of the same parents. In [Luke 10:39, 40](http://biblehub.com/luke/10-39.htm): *"And she [Martha] had a sister called Mary, who also, sitting at the feet of the Lord, heard his word. (40) But Martha was perplexed with much serving; and coming near, she said, 'master, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her, then, to assist me.'"*

> Also a female friend, esteemed and beloved as a sister, in [Matthew 13:50](http://biblehub.com/matthew/13-50.htm): *"For whoever shall do the will of the father of mine in the heavens, that one is my brother, or sister, or mother."*

> In [1 Corinthians 7:15](http://biblehub.com/1_corinthians/7-15.htm) *"But if the unbeliever withdraw, let him withdraw; the bother or the sister is not enslaved in such cases,-but in peace God has called us."*