## 549 - Five Hundred Forty-Nine
> (9x61)

### [morawgash](/keys/MVRGSh) - מורגש
> exciting, active; moral. The [27th path](27) of [Peh](/keys/P). From a verbal root meaning "to be noisy, to be tumultuous, to rage." Used in the term עולם מורגש, [Olahm Murgash](/keys/OVLM.MVRGSh), Moral World, to describe the powers of the 4th, 5th, and 6th Sephiroth.

### [muregawsh](/keys/MVRGSh) - מורגש
> threshing-sledge, threshing roller. Compare this with the symbol of the skeleton-reaper in [Key 13](13) (Mars as Nun or Scorpio).

### [Yeoshua ben-Nun](/keys/IHVShO.BN-NVN) - יהושע בן נון
> Joshua, son of Nun. The successor of Moses. The name יהושע is the original name of "Jesus."

### [rauch seahrah](/keys/RVCh.SORH) - רוח סערה
> Whirlwind; wind storm. [Ezekiel 1:4](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/1-4.htm). It comes out of the north, and is described as a great cloud, and a fire infolding itself. *"There came from the North a violent gale, accompanied by a great cloud, with fire flashing through it, while out of the midst of it gleamed something with a luster like that of shining metal."*

> The Hebrew translation gives Electrum for metal, חשמל, [Khashmal](/keys/ChShML), meaning: shining substance, electrum, fairy, angel; modern meaning: electricity. The word translated "brightness" is נגה, [Nogah](/keys/NGH) (a short spelling of נוגה) meaning: shining, brightness; morning-light; the planet Venus. What is indicated is that the motive-power of Mars brings "gold" (the Christos) from the north (direction of Peh) when Venus or the power of desire brings the Sun and Moon centers into balance, with the aid of Mercury. The is a profound alchemical statement. Electrum is Latin for Amber, also an ancient alloy of Gold and Silver. see [64](64), [85](85), [226](226), [876](876), [95](95), [878](878).

Note that on the Tree of Life, Venus (Daleth) is the path separating Chokmah (Masculine) from Binah (Feminine). Likewise, the Spheres of the Sun (Masculine, Tiphareth) and Moon (Feminine, Yesod) are mediated by the Spheres of Venus (Netzach) and Mercury (Hod).

