## 550 - Five Hundred Fifty
> (2x5x5x11)

### [nasher](/keys/NShR) - נשר
> eagle.

> [beginning of text missing] ...cosmic will. Scorpio ruled by Mars; Geburah is the sphere of Mars. To Geburah is attributed volition the activity of the Life-power which gives man the feeling that he has "personal will." Since the symbol of the eagle stands for Scorpio, the word נשר may be represented in Tarot by [Key 13](13). [Also: נשר to drop, wall off; נשר to drop, let drop; to tear, lacerate]. [K.D.L.C.K. p.600]

> This reference is attributed to Malkuth by some; to Tiphareth by others; the Zohar says it is Malkuth when it is raised to the level of Tiphareth, as in [Proverbs 30:19] "the way of an eagle in the air". And likewise Binah is called the "great winged eagle", her wings being the six sephiroth (or Microprosopus). see [496](496); [576](576) (Greek), Nun = Scorpio; Shin = Fire and [Ruach Elohim](/keys/RVCh.ALHIM); Resh = Sun. see [55](55) (Latin).

### [Sharatiel](/keys/ShRTIAL) - שרטיאל
> angel of Leo.

### [shebet barayzel](/keys/ShBT.BRZL) - שבט ברזל
> a rod of Iron. [Psalm 2:9](http://biblehub.com/psalms/2-9.htm): *"thou shall break them with a rod of Iron; thou shall dash them I pieces like a potter's vessel."* see [1230](1230) (Greek).

### [sawrim](/keys/ShRIM) - שרים
> "princes" [Psalm 45:16](http://biblehub.com/psalms/45-16.htm): "Instead of thy fathers shall be thy children, whom thou may make princes in all the earth. see [898](898), [500](500). Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.725] says the Zohar refers this word to Chokmah and Binah, because they are first of many grades of Atziluth.

### [shawmir](/keys/ShMIR) - שמיר
> diamond; adamant, flint; a fabulous worm that cuts. [Canon pp. 171-173] "Before the operations commenced [on the construction of the temple], Solomon asked the rabbis 'how shall I accomplish this, without using tools of Iron? "And they, remembering of an insect, which had existed since the creation of the world, whose powers were such as the hardest substances could not resist, repelled 'there is the shameer, with which Moses cut the precious stones of the Ephod." Solomon asked "And what does the wild cock do with the shameer?' To which the demon [Ashmedia] replied 'he takes it to a barren rocky mountain, and by means of it he cleaves the mountain asunder, into the cleft of which, formed into a valley, he drops the seeds of various plants and trees, and thus the place becomes clothed with verdure and fit for habitation.' This the shammer."

> In [Ezekiel 3:9](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/3-9.htm): *"As an adamant (diamond) harder than flint have I made your forehead, fear then not, neither be dismayed..."* see [970](970).

### [Mik](/keys/MIKf) - מיך
> 42nd name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 5th quinance of Aquarius. see [70](70), [101](101) (Michael). Kaph = 500

### See Also:

- [55](55)
- [10](10)