## 554 - Five Hundred Fifty-Four
> (2x277)

### [Nequdah Peshut](/keys/NQDH.PShVT) - נקדה פשוט
> the Simple Point, the small point. A title of Kether and the number One. see [620](620), [747](747).

### [zorea zara](/keys/ZRO.ZRO) - זרע זרע
> bearing seed.

### [be-chokmah yebawneah bayth](/keys/BChKMH.IBNH.BITh) - בחכמה יבנה בית
> "with wisdom the house is built" [Proverbs 24:3]. Chokmah, the cosmic father, carries the seed of life (Chaiah, the Life-force) to build the house of human personality. According to the Zohar, Chokmah here refers to Abraham (the father of Israel). see [2307](2307), [2392](2392), [1007](1007), [831](831).

### [malkuth ha-ehben](/keys/MLKVTh.HABN) - מלכות האבן
> kingdom of stone. Referred to in the prophecy of Daniel. "The stone kingdom... is a system of government democratic in outer form. The units of its bodypolitic, the persons from whose consent this government derives its powers, have come to a realization of the identity of the I AM in man with its heavenly source, the identity implies in the junction of the letters which spell father and son in the one word, ehben, stone." [Paul Case: Daniel Master of Magicians]

### [ketem ah-Uphaz](/keys/KThM.AVPZ) - כתם אופז
> fine gold of Uphaz. [Daniel 10:5](http://biblehub.com/daniel/10-5.htm): *"Then I lifted up mine eyes, and looked, and behold, a certain man clothed in linen, whose loins were girded with fine gold of Uphaz."* This refers to Tiphareth. See the angel in Key 14. Uphaz is related to the word Mophaz, "pure" [1 Kings 10:18](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/10-18.htm) and to Ophir, the land were fine gold was obtained. Gold is assigned to Tiphareth.

### [Marchosh](/keys/MRChVSh) - מרחוש
> Marchosias goetic demon by day of the 2nd decanate of Pisces.

> According to Davidson "An angel who, before he fell, belonged to the Order of Dominations. In hell, where he now serves, Marchosias is a might ?marqus?. When invoked, he manifest in the from of a wolf or an ox, with griffin wings, and serpents tail... he confided to Solomon that he 'hopes to return to the 7th throne after 1,200 years.'" [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.183]

> The letters of the demon's name suggest perversion of mental substance (Mem), causing the solar regenerative force (Resh) to flow into personality levels (Cheth), aiding receptivity to false teaching (Vav) and thus transforming the soul into one consumed by its erroneous acts (Shin).

> The second decanate of Pisces is ruled by the Moon and has the qualities: pious, retiring, mediumistic. The influence of the demon suggest conscious imbalance, resulting in negative aspects of these qualities. This decanate, in the minor Tarot arcana, is assigned to the 6 of Cups. This represents Tiphareth, sphere of the Central Ego, in the world of Briah, the plane of mental images and creative thinking. The demon's influence is to generate images of separation and hostility. This can result in deceit in reference to a partner's money; loss on inheritance though some sort of swindle; danger of death on water, or though poisons or anesthetics; some reversal of fortune. The remedy is to transfer the images of consciousness on the reality of the still calm of the one life at the center of being. the "mystical death" results in a real dissolution of physical cells impregnated with the images of separateness.

### See Also:

- [14](14)
- [5](5)