## 555 - Five Hundred Fifty-Five
> (3x5x37)

---

### [ha-qadmuth](/keys/HQDMVTh) - הקדמות
> The primordial. A reference to Hod, the perfect intelligence called, "treasure" or "dwelling-place of the primordial" in the text of the 32 paths. Paul Case: *"Every advance toward a greater perfection is but the utilization, the development, the unveiling, of the primordial treasure."* [32 Paths of Wisdom #5, p.5] see [15](15), [1431](1431).

---

### [aephawthawh](/keys/OPThH) - עפתה
> obscurity; darkness. [Job 10:22](http://biblehub.com/job/10-22.htm): *"A land of darkness, as darkness itself; and of the shadow of death, without any order, and where the light is as darkness."* The path of Peh descends out of the "darkness" of the north bringing Uriel, "Light of God" to the darkness of the cell-consciousness of the physical body. The darkness or obscurity of ignorance cannot see the origin of light, *"The light shines in the darkness, but the darkness comprehends it not."*

---

### [Aleph-Beth-Yod-Vav](/keys/ALP.BITh.IVD.VV) - אלף בית יוד וו
> A:B:I:V: . Abiff, written in full. Hiram Abiff is the Masonic personification of the Christos. see [19](19), [258](258), [290](290).

---

### [ha-nasher](/keys/HNShR) - הנשר
> the eagle. *"It is a stone and not a stone, viz. the eagle (Scorpio) stone. The substance has in its womb a stone, and when it is dissolved, the water that was coagulated in it burst forth thus the stone is the extracted sprit of our indestructible body. [Case: viz. the incorruptible body sown in the corruption of the natural body]. It contains Mercury, or liquid water, in its body, or fixed earth, which retains its nature. This explanation is sufficiently plain."* [Hermetic Museum I, p.211] see [550](550).

---

### [ha-tanniynim](/keys/HThNINM) - התנינם
> the whales; the sea-monsters. [Genesis 1:21](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-21.htm): *"So God created the great sea creatures and every living creature that moves"*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [en hymin](/greek?word=en+umin) (Gr) - ἐν ὑμῖν
> among you, in you. [James 3:13](http://biblehub.com/james/3-13.htm) *"Who is a wise man and endured with wisdom **among you?** Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom."*

> Also among us (literally in us), spelled ἐν ἡμῖν in [John 1:14](http://biblehub.com/john/1-14.htm) *"And the Logos became flesh, and dwelt **among us** -- and we beheld his glory, a glory as of an only begotten from a father -- full of favor and truth."*. see [163](163).

> "In you" in [Colossians 1:27](http://biblehub.com/colossians/1-27.htm) (the secret) *"To whom God wished to make known what is the glorious wealth of the secret among the nations, which is Christ **in you,** the hope and glory."*

---

### [diakrisis](/greek?word=diakrisis) (Gr) - διάκρισις
> a discerning clearly, a distinguishing; a judging of, estimation; discrimination.

> Spelled διάκρισιν in [Hebrews 5:14](http://biblehub.com/hebrews/5-14.htm): *"but the solid food is for adults-for those possessing faculties habitually exercised for the discrimination both of good and evil."* see [405](405).

> Plural διακρίσεις in [1 Corinthians 12:10](http://biblehub.com/1_corinthians/12-10.htm): *"And to another, operations of might works; and to another, prophecy; and to another, discriminations of spirits; and to another, different languages, and to another, interpretation of languages"* (to one is given, through the spirit). see [560](560).

> Also: [Romans 14:1](http://biblehub.com/romans/14-1.htm): *"Now receive to yourselves the weak in the faith, not, however, for differences of reasoning."* see [560](560).

---

### See Also:

- [15](15)
- [6](6)
