## 561 - Five Hundred Sixty-One
[3](3)x[11](11)x[17](17). Σ33.

---

### [eth-Cain](/keys/ATh-QINf) - את־קין
CAIN. See [160](160), [1121](1121). [Genesis 4:1](https://biblehub.com/genesis/4-1.htm): *"And Adam knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare **Cain,** and said, I have gotten a man from the LORD."*

---

### [aeleh thanem](/keys/OLH.ThANH) - עלה תאנה
> "fig-leaves"; so rendered in [Genesis 3:7](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-7.htm): *"Then the eyes of both of them [Adam and Eve] were opened, and they realized they were naked, so they sewed fig leaves together and made coverings for themselves."*

> Fabre D'Olivet translates this verse: *"And the eyes of them both were opened, and they know that they were void of light (of virtue, sterile and unveiled in their dark principle), and they brought forth a shadowy covering, veiled of sadness and mourning and they made themselves pilgrims 'cloaks'".* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.318]

> F.J. Mayers comments: *"fig-leaves: Hebrew, aleh thaeneh. 'Alem' cannot mean 'leaves' because is a singular word -(one could not speak of sewing one leaf together). It means covering, a shade, awning, protection, overshadowing. It may be used of the leaves of a tree in the sense that they 'cover up' the bare trunk and branches and give the tree in a sense that they 'cover up' the bare trunk and branches and give the tree its seasonal 'dress'. But there is no tree in question in this verse-and if there had been, it could hardly have been a fig-tree. One commentator says rather naively: 'some kinf of fig no longer ascertainable is meant by the fig-tree of paradise.'"* [The Unknown God, p.190] see [456](456), [703](703) (note); [105](105).

> Mayers adds: *"In any case the general meaning of the verse is now quite clear: - when the eyes of 'Adam' and his 'Aisha' [#[306](306)] were opened, they realized their ignorance and lack of guiding intelligence, and that knowledge covered them with mutual grief and confusion; they feel that they have cast themselves out from their former 'unity' with God, and know not what to do or where to go."* [IBID, p.191] see [400](400).

> The Zohar [I:53B] comments: *"And they sewed fig-leaves together. This means, as explained elsewhere, that they learnt all kinds of enchantments and magic, and clung to worldly knowledge, as has been said. At that moment the stature of man was diminished by a hundred cubits. thus a separation took place (of man from God), man was brought to judgement, and the earth was cursed, all as we have explained."* (p.169).

> Gaskel suggest that fig-leaves as aprons is *"a symbol of spiritual growth unobserved by the lower nature."* [Dictionary of All Scriptures and Myths, p.273].

---

### [Athnial](/keys/OThNIAL) - עתניאל
> Othniel, son of Kenaz, a hero in Israel and one of its judges. [Judges 3:11](http://biblehub.com/judges/3-11.htm): *"So the land had peace for forty years, until Othniel son of Kenaz died."*

---

### [wehaqimothi](/keys/VHQMThI) - והקמתי
"But with thee I will establish". [Genesis 6:18](https://biblehub.com/genesis/6-18.htm): *"**But with thee will I establish** my covenant; and thou shalt come into the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons' wives with thee."*

---

### [edreshenu](/keys/ADRShNV) - אדרשנו
"I will require it". [Genesis 9:5](https://biblehub.com/genesis/9-5.htm): *"And surely your blood of your lives will I require; at the hand of every beast **will I require it,** and at the hand of man; at the hand of every man's brother will I require the life of man."*

---

### [weh'alithem](/keys/VHOlIThM) - והעליתם
"And you shall carry up". [Exodus 13:19](https://biblehub.com/exodus/13-19.htm): *"And Moses took the bones of Joseph with him: for he had straitly sworn the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you; and ye shall carry up my bones away hence with you."*

---

### [letzetham](/keys/LTzAThM) - לצאתם
"After their departing out". [Exodus 16:1](https://biblehub.com/exodus/16-1.htm): *"And they took their journey from Elim, and all the congregation of the children of Israel came unto the wilderness of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after their departing out of the land of Egypt."*

---

### [niphlaoth](/keys/NPLATh) - נפלאת
Marvels. [Exodus 34:10](https://biblehub.com/exodus/34-10.htm): *"And he said, Behold, I make a covenant: before all thy people I will do **marvels,** such as have not been done in all the earth, nor in any nation: and all the people among which thou art shall see the work of the LORD: for it is a terrible thing that I will do with thee."*

---

### [weniqtha](/keys/VNQThH) - ונקתה
Then she shall be free. [Numbers 5:28](https://biblehub.com/numbers/5-28.htm): *"And if the woman be not defiled, but be clean; **then she shall be free,** and shall conceive seed."*

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
- [Bible Wheel: 561](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=561)
