## 583 - Five Hundred Eight-Three
> (11x53)

---

### [Temira De-Temirin](/keys/TMIRA.DTMIRIN) - טמירא דטמירין
> The Concealed of the Concealed, a title of Kether. see [620](620), Kabbalah unveiled, page 23.

> [beginning of text missing] *"...it, first in your own heart. At first you may say "it is not there; when I search I find only discord." Look deeper. If again you are disappointed, pause and look deeper again. There is a natural melody, an obscure fount in every heart. It may be hidden over and utterly concealed and silenced-but it is there... Look for it there, and once having heard it, you will more readily recognize around you."*

---

### [misetageyph](/keys/MSThGP) - מסתגף
> a hermit; literally, "a hidden body". Both these refer to [Key 9](9) which pictures the Concealed One as the solitary Watcher on high. (גף = [body](/keys/GVP), מסת = [hidden](/keys/MSTh))

---

### [achad awsawr](/keys/AChD.OShR) - אחד עשר
> eleven. Connected with the [11th path](11) of wisdom, Aleph, the Fiery Intelligence, and with Lamed, depicted in [Justice](/keys/L), the [11th Tarot Key](11).

> In [Genesis 37:9](http://biblehub.com/genesis/37-9.htm): *"Then he [Joseph] has another dream, and he told it to his brothers. "Listen, he said, "I had another dream, and this time the sun and moon and eleven stars were bowing down to me.'"*

> Also in [Exodus 26:8](http://biblehub.com/exodus/26-8.htm) Concerning the tabernacle: *"All eleven curtains are to be the same size-30 cubits and four cubits wide."*

---

### [Abimelek](/keys/ABIMLKf) - אבימלך
> "my father is king"; A Philistine King of Gerar, a locality near Gaza. [Genesis 20:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/20-2.htm) *"And there (Gerar) Abraham said of his wife Sara, 'she is my sister'. Then Abimelek King of Gerar sent for Sarah and took her."* [Kaph = 500]

---

### [shayir hachayam](/keys/ShIR.HChIIM) - שיר החיים
> A song of life.

---

## Greek

---

### [Kybalion](/greek?word=kubalion) (Gr) - Κυβαλιον
> a coined word: Qabalah + Cybele. A book of Hermetic philosophy. Cybele is the Asiatic "mother of the Gods" (Empress in the Tarot).

> KYBALION is a coined word of Greek derivation, chosen because, by sound, it suggests both "Qabalah" and "Cybele." The latter is the name of the Asiatic "mother of the gods," corresponding to Rhea, the earth-goddess who was the wife of Saturn, and the mother of Vesta, Juno, Neptune, Pluto and Jupiter. In Tarot, she is represented by the [Empress](/keys/D), by the woman in [Key 8](8), taming a lion, by Justice and by the kneeling water-bearer of [Key 17](17). (The Empress, although she is primarily a symbol for Venus, corresponds also to most of the mother goddesses of ancient mythology.)

> In Greek letters, KYBALION is written Κυβαλιον, and its numeral value is 583. This is [11](11) x [53](53), and since [53](53) in alchemy is referable both to [אבן], [ehben](/keys/ABN), stone, and to [חמה], [khammaw](/keys/ChMH), sun, while [11](11) (as Tarot shows) has to do with equilibration, there is more than a hint here that KYBALION has to do with the Great Work of equilibrating the powers of the Spiritual Sun, so as to produce the Stone of the Wise.

---

### [Lithos epi Lithon](/greek?word=lithos+epi+lithon) (Gr) - λίθος ἐπὶ λίθον
> A stone upon a stone. [Matthew 24:2](http://biblehub.com/matthew/24-2.htm): *"And Jesus said unto them, See ye not all these things? verily I say unto you, There shall not be left here one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down."*

---

### See Also:

- [16](16)
- [7](7)
