585 (9x5x13)
12x12 + 21x21 or 144 + 441. Represents mathematically the fullest
manifestation and the perfect expression of Kether.
ALHIM TzBAVTh Elohim Tzabaoth. God of Armies, Creative Powers of
Hosts. The Divine Name attributed to Hod, the 8 of Wands and
associated with human self-conscious intellect, represents
mathematically the fullest manifestation and the perfect
expression of Kether. This in essence is the purpose of human
self-consciousness. This purpose is seen to be the perfect
expression of the powers of the One I AM. The feminine aspect of
divine being, descending from Binah. Tzabaoth (armies) indicates
the multiplicity and apparent subdivision of these powers when
they find expression in human life, through "host" of
personalities. Thus, personal intellect in Hod is the expression
and temporal manifestation of the eternal creativity of the
divine soul. see 15, 370, 720.
The first word in this two-part name is that assigned to the
third Sephirah, just as the first word in [IHVH TzBAVTh], Jehovah
Tzabaoth, is the extended form of [IH], Jah, the name assigned to
Chokmah. Jah and Jehovah express the masculine aspect of the
Divine Being. Elohim is the Qabalistic designation for the
feminine. For Netzach, the seventh Sephirah, though it be called
the Sphere of Venus, is nonetheless a male Sephirah; while Hod,
the Sphere of Mercury, has its place on the feminine side of the
Tree.
HShRP ha-seraph. the fiery serpent, fiery angels. The serpent is
one symbol for Mercury or Hermes. When the self-conscious powers
of man are misunderstood and misdirected toward separateness,
then they express the evil connotation of Mercury as the
slanderer of man to himself. That is why the Mercury symbol is on
the belly of the Devil in Key 15. A name of the order of Angels
assigned to Geburah. Spelled NChSh in Genesis and ShRP in Numbers
21:8, where Moses made a "serpent of Brass." see 580, 358, 630.
LChVP ANITh le-khop ahnith. for a haven of ships. Said of
Zebulon in [Genesis 49:13] "Zebulon shall dwell at the haven of
the sea; and he shall be for an haven of ships..." Zebulon means
"habitation" or "home" and is the tribe corresponding to Cancer,
a watery sign. Cancer, as the 4th sign, corresponds to the 4th
house of the horoscope, referred to home, and also to the "end of
the matter", that is, to "coming into port". It also corresponds
to Alchemical separation. see 95, 1305
ammudi shibeaw he-chokmah [OMVDI ShBOH HChKMH]. The seven pillars
of wisdom. A development of the intimation given in [Proverbs
9:11] "Wisdom has builded her house, she has hewn out her seven
pillars." see 512, 507.
PRShH parahshaw. Sum [Esther 4:7], declaration [Esther 10:2].
Also: exact statement; branching off, sea voyage; crossing the
ocean, section of scripture. Relates to Zebulon, with the aid of
Mercury.
ThQIOH tequiaw. horn blast; Blowing of Shofar, pledging (by
striking hands). Suggest Key 20. see [K.D.L.C.K., page 386],
#586.
HShOIR ha-sawir, ha-saweer. The goat [Leviticus 16:22]. "And the
goat shall bear upon him all their iniquities into a land not
inhabited: and he shall let go the goat in the wilderness."
Capricorn (fermentation) is the "scape-goat" when the Shofar is
blown on the day of atonement. Refers to the path of Ayin and to
Key 15, the devil and to apparent obstacles. see 580.