## 585 - Five Hundred Eighty-Five
> (9x5x13). 12x12 + 21x21 or [144](144) + [441](441). Represents mathematically the fullest manifestation and the perfect expression of Kether.

### [Elohim Tzabaoth](/keys/ALHIM.TzBAVTh) - אלהים צבאות
> God of Armies, Creative Powers of Hosts. The Divine Name attributed to Hod, the 8 of Wands and associated with human self-conscious intellect, represents mathematically the fullest manifestation and the perfect expression of Kether. This in essence is the purpose of human self-consciousness. This purpose is seen to be the perfect expression of the powers of the One I AM. The feminine aspect of divine being, descending from Binah. Tzabaoth (armies) indicates the multiplicity and apparent subdivision of these powers when they find expression in human life, through "host" of personalities. Thus, personal intellect in Hod is the expression and temporal manifestation of the eternal creativity of the divine soul. see [15](15), [370](370), [720](720).

> The first word in this two-part name is that assigned to the third Sephirah, just as the first word in יהוה צבאות, [Jehovah Tzabaoth](/keys/IHVH.TzBAVTh), is the extended form of יה, [Jah](/keys/IH), the name assigned to Chokmah. Jah and Jehovah express the masculine aspect of the Divine Being. Elohim is the Qabalistic designation for the feminine. For Netzach, the seventh Sephirah, though it be called the Sphere of Venus, is nonetheless a male Sephirah; while Hod, the Sphere of Mercury, has its place on the feminine side of the Tree.

### [ha-seraph](/keys/HShRP) - השרף
> the fiery serpent, fiery angels. The serpent is one symbol for Mercury or Hermes. When the self-conscious powers of man are misunderstood and misdirected toward separateness, then they express the evil connotation of Mercury as the slanderer of man to himself. That is why the Mercury symbol is on the belly of the Devil in [Key 15](15). A name of the order of Angels assigned to Geburah. Spelled נחש in Genesis and שרף in [Numbers 21:8](http://biblehub.com/numbers/21-8.htm), where Moses made a "serpent of Brass." see [580](580), [358](358), [630](630).

### [le-khop ahnith](/keys/LChVP.ANITh) - לחוף אנית
> for a haven of ships. Said of Zebulon in [Genesis 49:13](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-13.htm): *"Zebulon shall dwell at the haven of the sea; and he shall be for an haven of ships..."* Zebulon means "habitation" or "home" and is the tribe corresponding to Cancer, a watery sign. Cancer, as the 4th sign, corresponds to the 4th house of the horoscope, referred to home, and also to the "end of the matter", that is, to "coming into port". It also corresponds to Alchemical separation. see [95](95), [1305](1305)

###[ammudi shibeaw he-chokmah](/keys/OMVDI.ShBOH.HChKMH) - עמודי שבעה החכמה
> The seven pillars of wisdom. A development of the intimation given in [Proverbs 9:11](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/9-11.htm) *"Wisdom has builded her house, she has hewn out her seven pillars."* see [512](512), [507](507).

### [parahshaw](/keys/PRShH) - פרשה
> Sum [Esther 4:7](http://biblehub.com/esther/4-7.htm), declaration [Esther 10:2](http://biblehub.com/esther/10-2.htm). Also: exact statement; branching off, sea voyage; crossing the ocean, section of scripture. Relates to Zebulon, with the aid of Mercury.

### [tequiaw](/keys/ThQIOH) - תקיעה
> horn blast; Blowing of Shofar, pledging (by striking hands). Suggests [Key 20](20). see [K.D.L.C.K., page 386], [586](586).

### [ha-sawir, ha-saweer](/keys/HShOIR) - השעיר
> The goat. [Leviticus 16:22](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/16-22.htm). *"And the goat shall bear upon him all their iniquities into a land not inhabited: and he shall let go the goat in the wilderness."* Capricorn (fermentation) is the "scape-goat" when the Shofar is blown on the day of atonement. Refers to the path of Ayin and to [Key 15](15), the devil and to apparent obstacles. see [580](580).
