## 586 - Five Hundred Eighty-Six
> 2x293. The total length of the 16 invisible paths when the Aleph line equals 15 (length of line between Kether and Chokmah).

> "The Middle Pillar is the greatest secret of the Tree, and its central point, Tiphareth, is the heart of the secret. Note that [Tiphareth](/keys/ThPARTh), being [1081](1081) תפארת, is both 10 and 1, or both Kether and Malkuth. Thus 1, 6 and 10 are all essentially the same. But [Yesod](/ISVD) יסוד is [80](80). However, consider this: IVD, SMK, VV, DLTh. Now add.

> (The sum of these letter-names is 586, reducing through 19 to 10 and 1.) *[The Gematria Notebooks of Paul Foster Case]*

> *586 gives you the Mother again (19, of ChVH), also Malkuth (10) and Kether (1), so that the whole idea is of the manifestation of Unity in the Kingdom; and the center, which is the Son, is also ADM and MLK." [13th Communication]*

### [Jerusalem](/keys/IRVShLM) - ירושלם
> (older spelling) "abode of peace," or "founded in peace." see [596](596).

> *"At the beginning of the journey [of brother C.R. in the Rosicrucian allegory], the intended destination is Jerusalem. The name of the city means 'abode of peace'. The desire to visit Jerusalem typifies the longing for contentment, the hunger for rest from strife, the quest for peace. These usually are the dominant motives which animate us when we seek entrance to the way of initiation. Here also, something is intimated with shows the real purpose of the manifests, despite their outward parade of sectarian Christianity. At the period when the allegory says brother C.R.C. began his journey, the last crusade had been abandoned only a little more than a hundred years earlier, and Jerusalem was a place of pilgrimage to the holy sepulcher. Thus a pilgrimage to Jerusalem was a type of that reverence for the dead forms of the past which, oddly enough, is often associated with the state of mind found in those who are just beginning there quest for truth." [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p.109]* see [111](111), [P.A.L.](/keys/PAL)

### [Yesod](/keys/IVD.SMK.VV.DLTh) - יוד סמך וו דלת
> Basis, Foundation, spelt in full. *"Yesod called the Sphere of the Moon, and that same Moon pertaineth also to Gimel, the letter of Union. Blessed are they who hear and understand, and understanding, live as they know. ...intelligence assigned to Yesod is [TAHOOR](/keys/THVR), which means pure. The Text hints also that man, of all living creatures, enjoys a special privilege, that of multiplying the astral radiance by subtle means which transcend physical generation. The Text however points out that repudiation of physical generation betokens a basic error that is enough to thwart any effort at direction of the astral power to finer and higher uses. This is an error of which true Qabalists have never been guilty. They have never condemned the normal functions of life, nor have they ever considered them to be essentially unclean. What they, and their oriental Brothers, have taught and practiced, is sublimation - not repudiation. So as you think and meditate on the Text, let your point of departure be this: the astral is not evil, nor is it to be feared. It is the plane which is actually the basis of our physical existence, and that basis is Light and Life. Take this for your clue and you will never be confused by any pseudo occult parading of dread terrors of the astral. You might as well as scared of your own breathing!" [27th Communication]*

### [Pook](/keys/PVKf) - פוך
> Antimony, stibium; first matter (see 106). [Kaph = 500]

### [parush](/keys/PRVSh) - פרוש
> abstinent person, hermit [Case]. Also abstemious, saintly, pure; pharisee; פרוש [parush](/keys/PRVSh) explanation; commentary, one who knows the "secret" of purifying Yesod eventually becomes a saint.

### [shofar](/keys/ShVPR) - שופר
> war-trumpet, shofar. see [Key 20](20), [585](585). In *[Exodus 19:16](http://biblehub.com/exodus/19-16.htm) "And it came to pass on the third day in the morning, that there were thunders and lighting, and a thick cloud appeared on the mountain and the sound of the trumpet exceedingly loud; so that all the people that were in the camp trembled."* And in *[Job 39:24](http://biblehub.com/job/39-24.htm) "He gallops with rage that makes the ground tremble, nor does he fear the sound of the trumpet."*

### [maytook haseneh](/keys/MThVK.HSNH) - מתוך הסנה
> out of the midst of a thorn-bush. *[Exodus 3:2](http://biblehub.com/exodus/3-2.htm) "and the angel of the Lord [IHVH] appeared unto him [Moses] in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush: and he looked, and, behold, the bush burned with fire, and was not consumed."*

### See Also

- [19](19)
- [10](10)
- [1](1)