## 588 - Five Hundred Eighty-Eight
> (3x4x7x7)

---

### [Elohay lo-etzer leben-alaymanah](/keys/IHVH.ALHI.LA-OZR.LBN-ALMNH) - יהוה אלהי לא־עזר לבן־אלמנה
> *"IHVH O Lord, my God, is there no help for the widow's son?"*

> Mackey says: *"In ancient craft Masonry ["window's son"] was the title applied to Hiram, the architect of the temple, because he is said to have been [I Kings 7:14] 'A widow's son, of the tribe of Naphtali." [In France] "as the wife of Hiram remained a widow after her son was murdered, the Masons, who regarded themselves as the descendants of Hiram, call themselves 'sons of the widow.'"* [Encycolpaedia, p.881] see [1018](1018), [1002](1002). [Lo, help = HNOVRTh, 732; the no-thing the help = AIN-OVRTh]

---

### [Bar-Yeshuah](/keys/BR.IShVO) - בר ישוע
> Bar-Jesus. [Acts 13:6](http://biblehub.com//.htm) *"And when they had gone through the isle unto Paphos, they found a certain sorcerer, a false prophet, a Jew, whose name was Bar-Jesus."*

> Greek xxx ([991](991)) whose name translated is xxx, the sorcerer ([676](676)). [Acts 13:8](http://biblehub.com//.htm) It is curious that the redeemer of Israel, his holy one [Isaiah 49:7] is also this number ([991](991)). see [1060](1060), [676](676).

> xxx [beginning of text missing] ...is properly the uppermost stone, the cap-stone of a pyramid. [Also: PNH = corner, turret]. But in modern building erected according to the traditions of Freemasonry, the courner stone is a perfect cube, placed at the N.E. corner of the building. Thus, by direction, it corresponds to the letter Heh [Sepher Yetzirah V: "gd let the letter Heh predominate in speaking, crowned it, combined one with the other, and formed by them Aries (the Ram), etc..."] Also to Aries and key 4 in Tarot, and the N.E. line of the cube of space. When a cubical corner-stone is thus laid, its own N.E. line coincides with the N.E. line of the building. In it sits placed records, etc. It is the determining stone of the edifice, with may be regarded as being both head and root. It is the point expanded to the cube, symbol of AMTh, emeth, truth. In a pyramid, its pinnacle stone is the pattern stone for the whole structure. By meditation on RASh HLBN and ABN PNThH, is will become evident that they both truly refer to KThR. 588 is the product of 21 = AHIH multiplied by 28 ( 7 = 28), and 28 = IChVD unity (in later Hebrew), also KCh power, strength.

---

### [naphtuchim](keys/NPThChIM) - נפתחים
Naphtuhim. "Openings". Son of [Mizraim](/keys/MTzRIM). see [995](995). [Genesis 10:13](https://biblehub.com/genesis/10-13.htm): *"And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, **and Naphtuhim**"*

---

### [mimachatzith](/keys/MMChTzITh) - ממחצית
than half. [Exodus 30:15](https://biblehub.com/exodus/30-15.htm): *"The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give less **than half** a shekel, when they give an offering unto the LORD, to make an atonement for your souls"*

---

### [mispachath](/keys/MSPChTh) - מספחת
a scab. [Leviticus 13:6](https://biblehub.com/leviticus/13-6.htm): *"And the priest shall look on him again the seventh day: and, behold, if the plague be somewhat dark, and the plague spread not in the skin, the priest shall pronounce him clean: **it is but a scab**: and he shall wash his clothes, and be clean."*

---

### [ubesh'ayir](/keys/VBShOIR) - ובשעיר
and in Seir. [Deuteronomy 2:12](https://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/2-12.htm): *"The Horims **also** dwelt **in Seir** beforetime; but the children of Esau succeeded them, when they had destroyed them from before them, and dwelt in their stead; as Israel did unto the land of his possession, which the LORD gave unto them."*

---

### [chapatzti](/keys/ChPTzThI) - חפצתי
I do want. [Deuteronomy 25:8](https://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/25-8.htm): *"Then the elders of his city shall call him, and speak unto him: and if he stand to it, and say, **I like** not to take her"*

---

### See Also:

- [21](21)
- [3](3)
- [Bible Wheel: 588](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=588)


