## 590 - Five Hundred Ninety
> (2x5x59)

---

### [kol-remess](/keys/KL-RMSh) - כל־רמש
All creepers. [Genesis 1:25](https://biblehub.com/genesis/1-25.htm): *"And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and cattle after their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind: and God saw that it was good."*

---

### [tzal'oth](/keys/TzLOTh) - צלעת
> ribs. [Genesis 2:21](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-21.htm): *"so the Lord God caused the man to fall into a deep sleep; and while he was sleeping, he took one of the man's ribs and closed up the place with flesh."*

> Fabre D'Olivet renders this verse: *"and Yahweh Aelohim cause a profound and sympathetic sleep to fall upon Adam (universal man), and he slept; and he broke from the unity, one of his involutions (exterior envelope, feminine principle) and shaped with form and corporeal beauty, its original inferiority (weakness)." He comments: "... what is the meaning of the root OH? Is it not that which is attached to all the curving all circumferential form, to all exterior superficies of things..."*

> *Therefore the word TzLO signifies exactly, and envelope, an exterior covering, a protecting shelter. This is what the facultative TzVLO proves, to be enclosing, covering, enveloping: This is what is proved also by the word... by which the Samaritans have rendered it. This word which is derived from the root OL, characterizes a thing raised to serve as covering, canopy, etc. The Chaldaic makes use of the word OLO, analogous to the Samaritan and having the same signification."*  [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.89]

> F.J. Mayers adds: *"What was done to the 'rib' was exactly what was done to the 'dry bones' in the valley of Ezekiel's dream-(and those 'dry-bones', by the way, we were told, were 'the whole house of Israel'-in other words, they were quite symbolic 'bones'.) The point is that, just as the bones of the dream were given human forms and life again, so that rib was built up into complete human form and given life. The form given to it was however, not a ...* [text ends]

---

### [sharatz](/keys/ShRTz) - שרץ
> to bring forth abundantly

---

### [sheretz](/keys/ShRTz) - שרץ
> Creeping thing, moving creature.

---

### [karash'a](/keys/KRShO) - כרשע
As the wicked. [Genesis 18:25](https://biblehub.com/genesis/18-25.htm): *"That be far from thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the wicked: and that the righteous should be as the wicked, that be far from thee: Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?"*

---

### [miqnath](/keys/MQNTh) - מקנת
purchases; those who were bought; slaves. [Genesis 17:23](https://biblehub.com/genesis/17-23.htm): *"And Abraham took Ishmael his son, and all that were born in his house, and all that were bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham's house; and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin in the selfsame day, as God had said unto him."*

---

### [epheruh + patoor](/keys/APRVCh.PTVR) - אפרוח פטור
> young bird plus open blossom. Both are metaphors of the "new creature" which is multiplied throughout the body cells. "Open blossom" is an epithet for the Sephiroth Malkuth, meaning "free". see [295](295).

---

### See Also:

- [59](59)
- [14](14)
- [5](5)
- [BibleWheel: 590](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?Gem_Number=590)
