## 600 - Six Hundred
> (3x5x5x8)

###/keys/Mf Final Mem
Corresponds to Key 12, the Hanged Man.

###/keys/ZVLThI AIN ALHIM zulahthiy ain Elohim
> Beside me (there is) no God, no God beside me. [Isaiah 45:5](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *I am the Lord, and there is none else, there is no God beside me.* The realization of the adept, "of myself I do nothing," is the direct consequence of his perception that God is One.

###/keys/ThHVR ORPL tawhore arawfel
> the pure darkens. The obscurity of the universal subconscious plane of life activity, represented by Yesod. (The path of Samekh connects Yesod with Tiphareth).

###/keys/IRM QRN yawrem qeren
> He lifted up a horn (for his people) [Psalm 148:14](http://biblehub.com//.htm). see 1186.

###/keys/MINQTh meynehqeth
> Nurse [Genesis 35:8](http://biblehub.com//.htm). Deborah, Rebecca's nurse. The word is translated in Greek as a name for the pentad, which equals sound. see 1240 Greek, Plutarch, On the Generation of the Soul.

###/keys/MINQTh menaqqiyth
> bowl for libations, sprinkling vessel [Exodus 25:29](http://biblehub.com//.htm). In all versions of Key 14 such a bowl or vessel is a prominent feature of the design.

###/keys/MSKf mawsak
> to mix (liquids). The angel in Key 14 pours the water from the vase. [K = 500].

###/keys/MSKf mawsawk
> curtain, screen. The path of Key 14 screens the initiate form the Ego or Higher Self-they must first be purified in Yesod. this is the veil, or paroketh, screening the Holy of Holies in the temple.

###/keys/MTzPTz MTzPTz matzpatz matzpatz
> (Temurah for) IHVH IHVH. A qabalistic cipher for Tetragrammaton Tetragrammaton (IHVH IHVH), the first 2 names of the 13 categories of Mercy. [Exodus 34:6](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *And the Lord passed by before him [Moses] and proclaimed, the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering, and abundant in goodness and truth.*

> If the Hebrew alphabet be inverted Mem is in the place of Yod, Tzaddi in the place of Heh and Peh in place of Vav. In its explanation of [Genesis 1:16](http://biblehub.com//.htm) the Zohar says the "two great lights" symbolize the "full name" IHVH ALHIM, Tetragrammaton Elohim. "Though him the name of the whole was called Matzpatz Matzpatz, the two highest names in the 13 categories of Mercy." see 6, 60.

###/keys/PLIAVTh ChKMH peliyahoth Chokmah
> hidden (admirable) Wisdom. (From PLIAH, miracle, marvel, wonderful deed).

###/keys/SMK Letter name Samekh
> tent peg, to prop, support, hold. Connects Tiphareth to Yesod on the Tree of Life. On the Cube of Space Samekh joins the faces West (Jupiter) and above (Mercury) on the line west above. What is pictured under one aspect of Key 13 is what manifest also in the activities of Key 14-the skeleton reaper and the angel are one. see 120. [Kaph = 500]

###/keys/QRSh qeresh. board, plank
> As a Mishnaic or Talmudic word, Unicorn. (Greek μ ε , Latin monoceros)

###/keys/QRSh qawrash
> to become solid, congeal, contract. From a root meaning to split off, to cut apart. [Exodus 26:15](http://biblehub.com//.htm): And thou shall make the boards [i.e. split boards] for the tabernacle of shittim wood standing up. for unicorn see 103, 190 (Latin).

###/keys/QShR qahshar
> to bind, to tie, to bind with cords (as the hanged man), to plot, conspire.

###/keys/QShR qushshar
> to be strong, be vigorous.

###/keys/QShR qehsher
> alliance, in both good and bad sense, plot, conspiracy, band of conspirators; knot, band, loop; protuberance, joint; problem.

###/keys/ShSh shesh
> six; white marble, linen, white stone. [Genesis 7:11](http://biblehub.com//.htm). Related to the white linen robes and white stones in the apocalypse [Revelations 3:17, 4:4](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=revelation%203%3A17%2C%204%3A4&version=KJV). When one is in continual union with the central point he has the state of purity symbolized by the robe and a new name. Its peculiar revelation is always ineffable. It is incommunicable because there are no words, or other symbols, whereby it may be expressed. see [Genesis 41:42](http://biblehub.com//.htm). As a masculine noun, same pointing, white marble , Byssus. Byssus is the name of a fine linen or cotton. Among the ancients, a cloth of exceedingly fine texture. [Song of Solomon 5:15](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *His legs are a pillars of marble, set upon sockets of fine gold ; upon Joseph's hand, and arrayed him in ventures of fine linen, and put a gold chain about his next ...* [Proverbs 31:24](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *She makes fine linen, and sells it ...* see 6, 60, 186, 162, 800.

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: ShSh six. The root ShV contains all ideas of equality, of equilibrium, of fitness, or proportion in things. United to the sign of relative duration Shin in order to form the name of this number, it becomes the symbol of every proportional and relative measure. It is quite well known that the number six is applied to particular, to the measure of the circle, and in general, to all proportional measure. One finds in the feminine, ShShTh, and the Chaldaic read ShTh: which is not unlike the name of the number two [#400]; furthermore, between these there exist great analogies, since six is to three, what two is to one; and since we have seen that three [#636] represented a sort of unity. [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.153] For other numerals see 13, 400, 636, 273, 348, 372, 395, 770, 570, 441.

###/keys/TzITzITh tzeytzeyth
> lock, forelock, tassel, fringe. from TzITzH: blossom, flower. Refers to the white stone, the opened center in the head which receives the glory of God and adorned with a fringe.

## Greek/Latin:

### Heh Theotes
> the Godhead, divine nature. The divine nature and perfection. The cosmos is of one substance with Godhead.

### kosmos
> Order, arrangement (of the Universe). The intelligible world or order of all things which includes the intelligible word or reason (Logos). A Gnostic term [[John 14:17](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"The spirit of truth which the world cannot receive."*] 1. order. 2. good order, good behavior, decency. 3. a set form or order: of states, government. 4.the mode or fashion of a thing. an ornament, decoration, dress, raiment. Also an honor, credit. This word is used in two opposite senses in the New Testament. This first is akin to the philosophical meaning, as found in the Pythagorean and Platonic texts. Only in this sense is it to be taken as synonymous with (see 530 Greek). As a designation for "this world" and for the present order of thing, it stands for the false system with its conventions and erroneous standards which man sets up by reason of his ignorance. see 128. A tabernacle of Moses, a cubical room was a symbol of this cosmic order. see 670, 128, 2670, 2541, 2516, 2219, 1850, 1517, 849. James Pryse points out that The primary meaning of the world is 'good order', and it is applied to anything having definite form or arrangement, from an ornament, or a fashion in dress, to the whole manifested universe. Chaos, or rather the primary matter it contains (hyle, unwrought material) becomes, though the formative power of the Logos, the Kosmos or objective universe, each department of which is also a Kosmos or world in itself; hence the word applies to the suns and planets in space, to this earth, to humanity in general, and to individual man. [The Magical Message According to Ionnes, p.75]

### Chi
> Greek letter with the value of 600. It appears in Pythagorean, Gnostic and other forms of symbolism (St. Andrew's Cross) in Christianity it stands for Christ, as the foundation and support (Samekh) of personal existence and of the world order represented by σμ .

### See Also:

- 60
- 6
- [Bible Wheel: 888](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=888)

