## 601 - Six Hundred One
> (prime)

### [am](/keys/AM) - 
> womb, origin, mother. Refers to Binah, the Great Mother, symbolized by the Empress in the Tarot, see Key 3, #41. [Mem = 600]

### [Sekhel Mier](/keys/ShKL.MAIR) - 
> Luminous Intelligence. The 14th path of Daleth. First of the reciprocal path of the Tree, Joining Chokmah to Binah. Derives its luminosity from the Illuminating Intelligence of Chokmah. It is the Establisher of the Mysteries (Institutrix Arcanorum) because it is "the path of the hidden things of not-existent creation, the pattern forming power of creative imagination which shapes mind-stuff into form. Related to reproduction-the subconscious mental activity behind physical cell function, impressed on the cells of the Jupiter center. It may be used consciously to rejuvenate the body into the fifth Kingdom. A master of this path can also influence the health of other via spiritual healing. On the cosmic level this activity is the generation, multiplication, and development of the paternal see (Chaiah in Chokmah), and its expression in mental imagery. see 358, 378, 70, 71, 486, 703, 67, 73, 257 (Latin), 434, 4.

This path is said to be the 'Instructor of Arcana', that is, the establisher of things shut up, because Daleth represents not the doorway, but the valve of the door, the ear to entrance. The 14th path of Daleth is termed also the 'Foundation of Holiness', or more accurately, the Holy Foundations'. The word translated Foundations is ISVDVTh, Yesodoth, the plural being in the feminine form. Here is a very plain intimation that by Venus and Copper, alchemy refers to the feminine basis of manifestation which is recognized throughout the various versions of the ageless wisdom. Described here in the plural, because in what is so designated is the root of the bewildering multiplicity of forms which does, indeed, act as a barrier to the aspirant's entrance into the secret place where the great treasure is hidden at the center. It is the same as what Krishna, in the Bhagavadgita calls my mysterious power, difficult to cross over. To pass this barrier, to open the door, is to clear the way to what the Chadean Oracles call the adytum of God-nourished silence'.

[In the Rosicrucian allegory, the Fama] The combined power of memory and intuition, the table and the nail, bring with them the stone of conscious union with the Higher Self, and thus the door of liberation is revealed. This is the door which leads to understanding of the mathematical and psychological principles at work in the construction of the universe. Thus the Fama says that through this door the brethren gained access to such a treasure of knowledge as would serve for the complete restoration of all the arts and sciences. [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p.179-180]

Beauty being established, the 14th path, Daleth, unites Wisdom and Understanding, and the central point of this path where it crosses the 13th is Da'ath, in Hebrew knowledge, for all knowledge has its root in the divine contemplation of the perfect primal beauty. [32 Paths]

I am the Luminous Intelligence, enlighting my entire experience with the Wisdom of the Ages. [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom]

### [tawar](/keys/ThAR) - 
> to mark a boundary, describe, compress, go round.

Also: ThAR to mark out, delineate, trace out; to give a fine appearance to; to compass, to go round; ThAR outline, form, figure, shape; aspect, vestige; title, degree. These are all meaning associated with function of creative imagination.

In [Joshua 18:14](http://biblehub.com//.htm) And the border [of the tribe of Benjamin] was drawn and compassed, and turned about to the west side...

### [hapeyelooth](/keys/HPOILVTh) - 
> the activities. Refers to the activities of Teth, the serpent-power, which are controlled and directed by acts of creative imagination. see 600.

### See Also:

- [7](7)
