## 602 - Six Hundred Two
> (2x7x43)

---

### [Aur Peshut](/keys/AVR.PShVT) - אור פשוט
> Simplest Light, a title of Kether. see [620](620), [207](207).

> [beginning of text missing] *...attributed to the 6th Sephirah, Tiphareth. David means love. Paul case writes: Jesus... in Hebrew... is consciousness of divine will (Yod, Intelligence of Will) reflected in the realization that human personality is essential immortal (Shin, Perpetual Intelligence)... combined in a knowledge... destined to triumph over all error and failure (Vav, Triumphant and Eternal Intelligence) which is the true catholic church, having for it foundation Jesus' personal triumph over the devil, and communicating to its adherents a knowledge of the unreality of evil and the subordinateness of matter to thought, which is destined to make all things new (Ayin, renovation intelligence).* [Notebook: From Day to Day , p.91] consciousness of divine will is inherent in the illumination material of the 'simplest light.

---

### [men-benith Dan](/keys/MN-BNVTh.DN) - מן־בנות דן
> of the daughter of Dan. [2 Chronicles 2:14](http://biblehub.com/2_chronicles/2-14.htm). Said of Hiram-Abiff: *"The son of a woman of the daughters of Dan."* Dan is the tribe attributed to Scorpio, and alchemical putrefaction. Before the brightness of the light of heaven may be seen, there must be darkness and death of the old pattern of separation.

---

### [bawthar](/keys/BThR) - בתר
> to divide. [Genesis 15:10](http://biblehub.com/genesis/15-10.htm): *"And he took unto him all these, and divided them in the midst..."*

---

### [qetzaoth](/keys/QTzVVTh) - קצוות
> boundaries, ends; extremitates, according to Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.677] He cites as examples מב, the written name of God, קו, cord, measuring line and דעת [Da'ath](/keys/DOTh) knowledge. Written קצות in [Psalm 65:9](http://biblehub.com/psalms/65-9.htm): *"You visit the ends of the earth and water it, you greatly enrich it with the river of God, which is full of water: you prepare them grain when you have so provided for it."*

---

### See Also:

- [62](62)
- [8](8)
