## 606 - Six Hundred Six
> (2x3x101)

---

### [yishretzu](/keys/IShRTzV) - ישרצו
Let bring forth abundantly. [Genesis 1:20](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-20.htm): *"And God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creature that hath life"*.

> Fabret d'Olivet: *"ישרצו, shall-spring-forth-plentifully.... The verb שרוץ which [Moses] employs, springs from two contracted roots, שר־רץ; the first, שר, composed of the signs of relative and proper movement, or circular and rectilinear, indicates an emission, a liberation, a detachment, a separation. The seconds, רץ, characterizes a sort of movement, of vibration, recommencing and finishing, reptilian, being propagated by being divided: thus the compound שרץ contains every idea of propagative emission, of motive origin, of generative separation. This is the figurative and hieroglyphic meaning. In the literal sense, it is a reptilian movement, and in a wholly restricted and materialized sense, a reptile."* [[The Hebraic Tongue Restored (Cosmogony), p.50](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/50)].

---

### [qishur](/keys/QShVR) - קשור
> nexus, ligature, binding, tying, contraction. see קשר.

---

### [qawshoor](/keys/QShVR) - קשור
> tied together, joined. Spelled קשורה in [Proverbs 22:15](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/22-15.htm): *"Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child; but the rod of correction shall drive it far from him."* Also: obligation; (obsolete): impotence due to magic.

---

### [aechizath einaim](/keys/AChIZTh.OINIM) - אחיזת עינים
> Hocus-pocus. Jugglery; delusion by optical deception. Relates to the appearance symbolized by [Ayin](/keys/O) and by [Key 15](15). see [70](70), [130](130).

---

### [Ruth](/keys/RVTh) - רות
> Ruth; companion ; ancestress of King David of Israel. [Ruth 1:15](http://biblehub.com/ruth/1-15.htm): *"And Ruth said, 'entreat me not to leave thee, or to return from following after thee: for whither thou goes, I will go; and where thou lodges, I will lodge: thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God."* Also: RVTh, a turtle-dove.

---

### [peulluth IHVH](/keys/POLTh.IHVH) - פעלת יהוה
> works of Tetragrammaton, In [Psalm 29:5](http://biblehub.com/psalms/29-5.htm): *"The voice of the Lord breaks the cedars; yet the Lord breaks the cedars of Lebanon."* The works are connected with the voice. see [136](136), The voice is in the heart. see [138](138), [612](612).

---

### [tor](/keys/ThVR) - תור
> turtle-dove. [Canticles 2:12](http://biblehub.com/songs/2-12.htm): *"Flowers appear on the earth; the season of singing has come, the cooing of the turtledove is heard in our land."* The dove יונה, is united with Venus, and passion. see [71](71).

---

### See Also:

- [66](66)
- [12](12)
- [3](3)
