## 610 - Six Hundred Ten
> (2x5x61)

---

### [ha-Adam](/keys/HADMf) - האדם
> Archetypal idea of Man, the first man. [Genesis 2:25](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-15.htm): *"And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed."* [Mem = 600] see [50](50).

---

### [yeminehkah](/keys/IMINKf) - ימינך
> your right hand. see [130](130).

---

### [immekah](/keys/OMKf) - עמך
> with thee. [Psalm 36:9](http://biblehub.com/psalms/36-9.htm): *"For with thee is the fountain of life: in thy light shall we see light."* [Kaph = 500]. see [130](130).

---

### [yam](/keys/IMf) - ים
> the sea; one of the titles of Binah, the great reservoir of substance from which forms are specialized, i.e. the radiant darkness of limitless light. [Mem = 600]. see [50](50).

---

### [ethayrog](/keys/AThRVG) - אתרוג
> citrus, one of the 4 plants used on the feast of the tabernacles. Also: citron, lime, lust and desire. [K.D.L.C.K. p.178] ...it is Malkuth, and it is a symbol of the heart, which denotes Shekhinah [the divine presence]. see [613](613).

---

### [maeser](/keys/MOShR) - מעשר
> tithe; a tenth (offering). [Deuteronomy 26:12](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/26-12.htm): *"When thou has made an end of tithing all the tithes of thine increase the third year, which is the year of tithing, and has given it unto the Levite, the stranger, the fatherless, and to the widow, according to all thy commandments which thou has commanded me: I have not transgressed thy commandments, neither have I forgotten them."*

---

### [aegorath](/keys/AGVRTh) - אגורת
> small coins, pennies. [From אגורה [agorah](/keys/AGVRH) something gathered, to gather together, accumulate. Refers to the unity of all life]. see [215](215).

---

### [karemi shellay](/keys/KRMI.ShLI) - כרמי שלי
> my own vineyard. [Canticles 1:6](http://biblehub.com/songs/1-6.htm): *"Do not look at me because I have dark skin, because the sun has tanned me; my mother's sons contended with me; they made me the keeper of the vineyards; but my own vineyard I have not kept."* see [260](260).

---

### [Yereth](/keys/IRTh) - ירת
> The 27th name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 3rd quinance of Sagittarius. see [641](641).

---

### [Jether](/keys/IThR) - יתר
Jethro. Alternate spelling found in [Exodus 4:18](http://biblehub.com/exodus/4-18.htm): *"And Moses went and returned to Jethro his father in law, and said unto him, Let me go, I pray thee, and return unto my brethren which are in Egypt, and see whether they be yet alive. And Jethro said to Moses, Go in peace."* see [616](616).

---

### [Yether](/keys/IThR) - יתר
Excellency. [Genesis 49:3](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-3.htm): *"Reuben, thou art my firstborn, my might, and the beginning of my strength, the excellency of dignity, and the excellency of power"*

---

### [qeleph T](/keys/QLP.Th) - קלף ת
"Parchment T"; from a phrase in the [Fama](https://archive.org/stream/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985#page/n23/mode/2up): *"In his hand he held a parchment called T, the which next to the Bible is our greatest treasure, which ought not to be delivered to the censure of the world."* see [849](849).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [kyrioi](/greek?word=kurioi) (Gr) - κύριοι
Masters, owners. [Luke 19:33](http://biblehub.com/luke/19-33.htm): *"And on their untying the colt, its masters said to them, 'Why do you untie the colt?'"*

---

### [oikonomois](/greek?word=oikonomois) (Gr) - οἰκονόμοις
Stewards. [1 Corinthians 4:2](http://biblehub.com/1_corinthians/4-2.htm): *"Moreover it is required in stewards, that a man be found faithful."*

---

### See Also

- [61](61)
- [7](7)
