## 616 - Six Hundred Sixteen
> (7x8x11)

---

### [yom](/keys/IVMf) - יום
> day, the manifest. also יום to be warm or bright. [Mem = 600] see [56](56).

---

### [Atik Yomin](/keys/OThIK.IVMIN) - עתיך יומין
> The Ancient of Days; a title of Kether [see [620](620), [1266](1266), [1290](1290)]. In the Greater Holy Assembly [IRQ 1:22] it says: For neither does the world remain firm, except through secrecy. And if in worldly affairs there be so great need of secrecy, how much more in the things of the most secret of secrets, and in the meditation of the Ancient of Days, which matter are not even revealed unto the highest of the angels.

> Also in [IRQ 6:64] Nevertheless the [brain] membrane is opened from below. And this is that which we have said: among the signatures of the letters is תו [Tav](/keys/ThV); nevertheless he impresses it as the sign of the Ancient of Days, from whom depends the perfection of knowledge, because he is perfect on every side, and what is said: an old one, his knowledge is hidden and his brain is hidden and tranquil. And that membrane has an outlet from ze'ir an-peen and therefore this brain is spread and goes out to 32 ways. This is that which is written: 'And a river went forth from Eden.' [pp.368-369] see [696](696), [1346](1346), [1746](1746).

---

### [charavoth](/keys/ChRBVTh) - חרבות
> swords. [Isaiah 21:15](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/21-15.htm): *"They flee from the drawn swords, from the bent bow and from the heat of battle."*

> Written חרבותם [charvotham](/keysChRBVThM) in [Isaiah 2:4](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/2-4.htm) concerning the Lord [IHVH]: *"He will judge between the nations and will settle disputes from many peoples. They will beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation will not take up sword against nation, nor will they train for war any more.*"

---

### [mimaysilotham](/keys/MMSLVThM) - ממסלותם
> in their courses. [Judges 5:20](http://biblehub.com/judges/5-20.htm): *"They fought from heaven; the stars in their courses fought against Sisera."* The word literally means 'highways, paths'. see [536](536), [1176](1176), [231](231), [48](48), [98](98).

---

### [Yethayro](/keys/IThRV) - יתרו
> Jethro. his excellence . Father-in-law of Moses. Inman: He abounds, excels, is superior, or He is prominent. see [610](610).

> [Exodus 18:1](http://biblehub.com/exodus/18-1.htm) *"When Jethro, the priest of Midian, Moses' father in law, heard of all that God had done for Moses, and for Israel his people, and that the Lord had brought Israel out of Egypt. A priest and head of a tribe of Midian among whom Moses found asylum on his flight from Egypt.*"

> [Exodus 2:21](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"And Moses was content to dwell with the man: and he gave Moses Zipporah his daughter. Note that Midian means the seed of Dan."* see [104](104), [54](54), [50](50), [345](345).

When Jethro is introduced in [Exodus 2:18](http://biblehub.com/exodus/2-18.htm), he is named [Reuel](/keys/ROVAL) "friend of God", but once he takes in Moses, "Reuel" becomes "Jethro" meaning "his excellence", indicating the deep respect Moses has for this person. [307](307).

---

### [Tihro](/keys/ThIRV) - תירו
> The Pentateuch. The first 5 books of the Bible, also called the law of Moses. Note that this word is a metathesis of Jethro.

---

### [Shimiron](/keys/ShIMIRVN) - שימירון
> Qlippoth of Pisces. The unbalanced or negative qualities of this sign are negative medium for obsessing entities, single-hearted evolution to the intolerant and bigotry in religion and politics; spiritual pride; alcoholism, drug addiction, despondency. The remedy is to recognize the fact of utter dependance of personalty upon life itself, and to express oneself in works of charity and altruistic service to one's neighbor.

---

### [Nero Qaesar](/keys/NRV.QSR) - 
> Nero Caesar [Hebrew spelling of a Latin name]. The 'beast' mentioned in the Apocalypse [Revelation 13:18](http://biblehub.com/revelation/13-18.htm): *"Here is wisdom. Let him that has understanding count the number of the beast: for it is the number of a man, and his number is 666."* Nero was the "beast" because he had assumed divinity and used solar symbols (Apollo). A cryptic reference to the Spirit of Roman imperialism-materialistic exaltation of physical force, which has lasted until present times. see [666](666), [1316](1316).

---

### See Also:

- [13](13)
- [4](4)

