## 632 - Six Hundred Thirty-Two (8x79)

---

### [CR.GV.IA.IO.GG.PD.RC.B](/keys/KR.GV.IA.IO.GG.PD.RK.B) - כר גו יא יע גג פד רך ב
> *"If the initials of our Father and Brother are taken as C.R. (or R.C.), the total value of the intitials of the eight founders is 632, which is the value of [Belteshazzar](/keys/BLTShATzR), the Babylonian name of the prophet Daniel, and Qabalists would recognize the close connection between the Rosicrucian ideas and those that are expressed in Daniel's prophecy."* [True and Invisible (WeiserBooks) p. 96]. see [312](312), [8](8), [150](150) Latin; [652](652), [702](702), [291](291).

---

### [Belteshazzar](/keys/BLTShATzR) - בלטשאצר
> Protect his life. [Daniel 1:7](http://biblehub.com/daniel/1-7.htm). *"Unto whom the prince of eunuchs gave names: for he gave unto Daniel the name of Belteshazzar..."* The Babylonian name of the prophet Daniel. *"... Qabalists would recognize the close connection between the Rosicrucian ideas and those expressed in Daniel's prophecy."* [True and Invisible, page 162].

> [Daniel 4:18](http://biblehub.com/daniel/4-18.htm): *"This dream King I Nebuchadnezzar have seen. Now thou, O Belteshazzar, declare the interpretation thereof, forasmuch as all the wise men of my kingdom are not able to make known unto me the interpretation: but thou are able; for he spirit of the holy gods is in me."*

---

### [Bayth-kar](/keys/BITh-KR) - בית־כר
> House of the Lamb. [1 Samuel 7:11](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/7-11.htm) *"And the men of Israel went out of Mizeph, and pursued the Philistines, and smote them, until they came under Beth-car."* This shows that the "house" or temple established by KR (C.R.) is intended. A man's family is his house, in Hebrew, as in English. From this "house" is transferred to: organization, company, fraternity. Thus House of the Lamb = House of C.R. see [220](220), [412](412).

---

### [Olam Yesodoth](/keys/OVLM.ISVDVTh) - עולם יסודות
> The World of Foundations; the Sphere of the Elements; the part of the material world corresponding to Malkuth [Godwin]. see [1192](1192), [486](486), [146](146).

---

### [tzawphanethi + beth](/keys/TzPNThI.B) - צפנתי ב
> I have laid up (thy word in my heart) plus house. The hose of personality contains the word of God. Note that 2, the value of Beth is also the number of [Key 2](2) or [Gimel](/keys/G), the High Priestess, connected with the Moon or memory. It is memory that recalls us to the unity (Gimel = the Uniting Intelligence). see [630](630), [2](2).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Athanatos](/greek?word=athanatos) (Gr) - ἀθανατος
> Immorality, deathlessness [1 Corinthians 15:53](http://biblehub.com/1_corinthians/15-53.htm) + [54](http://biblehub.com/1_corinthians/15-54.htm). *"for this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immorality. So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immorality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, death is swallowed up in Victory."*. See [323](323).

> [1 Timothy 6:16](http://biblehub.com/1_timothy/6-16.htm): *"Who only hath immortality, dwelling in the light which no man can approach unto, whom no man hath seen nor can see, to whom be honor and power everlasting..."*

---

### See Also:

- [11](11)
- [2](2)
