## 640 - Six Hundred Forty
> (5x128)

### [Shemesh](/keys/ShMSh) - שמש
> The Sun. In Alchemy the sun is gold. With different vowel points: battlement; servant, virile member.

### [shimmashe](/keys/ShMSh) - שמש
> to minister, officiate, to serve; to perform marital duty (verb).

### [timmer](/keys/ThMR) - תמר
> to rise up straight (like a palm tree).

### [Tamar](/keys/ThMR) - תמר
> ancestress of David (a palm tree).

### [Khurum Melek-Tzor](/keys/ChVRM.MLK-TzVR) - חורם מלך־צור
> Hiram, King of Tyre. The word Tzor (Tyre) is spelled defectively in the Hebrew text, TzR, that is, the Vav is omitted, and the O-sound is supplied by placing the dot over Tzaddi. see [634](634), [1081](1081), [45](45), [52](52), [90](90), [311](311), [478](478), [536](536), [548](548), [214](214), [465](465), [273](273), [1378](1378), [2 Chronicles 2:3](http://biblehub.com/2_chronicles/2-3.htm).

### [kos tanchumim](/keys/KVS.ThNChVMIM) - כוס תנחומים
> cup of consolation, which is the same as the cup in [Psalm 23](http://biblehub.com/kjv/psalms/23.htm), "my cup runneth over". see [Key 2](2), [3](3), [1200](1200), [1434](1434).

### [shalish](/keys/ShILSh) - שילש
> one third, name of measure, musical instrument; middle finger; arbitrator; triangle. Tiphareth is the third projection from Kether, Chokmah being first and Binah second. Here is a hint that the rulership which is implied by calling the sixth path מלך [Melek](/keys/MLK), King, is based on measurement.

> Given as measure, i.e. "measured" in [Isaiah 40:12](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/40-12.htm): *"Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and meted out heaven with the span, and comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure [ShLISh], and weighed the mountains in scales, and the hills in balance?"*

> Triangle, i.e. musical instrument in [1 Samuel 18:6](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/18-6.htm): *"And as they came, when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, the woman came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet King Saul, with tabrets, joy and musical instruments."* see [680](680).

> [K.D.L.C.K. p.719] Relates *"this it triplicates or thirds into which the Tree of Life is divided: the first third is assigned to Chokmah, Binah, and Da'ath; the middle third to Gedulah, Geburah and Tiphareth, the last third to Netzach, Hod and Yesod."*"

### [Debir Qadeshkah](/keys/DBIR.QDShK) - דביר קדשך
> the Holy Sanctuary. [Psalm 28:2](http://biblehub.com/psalms/28-2.htm) *"Hear the voice of my supplications, when I cry unto thee, when I lift up my hands toward thy holy oracle."* see [975](975) (Greek).

### [inehkah](/keys/OINIKf) - עיניך
> thine eyes. [Kaph = 500]

### [Atiqin](/keys/OThIQIN) - עתיקין
> Ancient Ones [Daniel 7:9 to 22](http://biblehub.com/kjv/daniel/7.htm). *"I beheld till the thrones were cast down, and the Anceint of Days did sit, whose garment was white as snow, and the hair of his head like the pure wool: his throne was like the fiery flame, and his wheels as burning fire."* In Daniel the singular is used. It refers to the Ancient of Days. see [510](510), [250](250), [90](90), [53](53), [200](200), [1290](1290).

### [pahnehkah](/keys/PNIKf) - פניך
> thy face; thy presence [Kaph = 500] (see [160](160)).

### [tzephiyathan](/keys/TzPIIThN) - צפייתן
> their appearance. Refers to the appearance of the 10 Sephiroth, comparing it to a flash of lighting [Sephir Yetzirah 1:5]. see [1290](1290).

## Greek

### [Basileia eirenes](/greek?word=basileia.eirhnhs) (Gr) - Βασιλεια ειρηνης
> Kingdom of peace. Basileia also means: a queen, a princess. Note that in Hebrew this would be "Kingdom of Solomon." The basic idea is that of balance, or equilibrium. see [375](375).

### See Also:

- [64](64)
- [10](10)
