## 641 - Six Hundred Forty-One
> (prime)

---

### [meoroth](/keys/MARTh) - מארת
> lights, luminaries. [Genesis 1:14-16](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Genesis+1%3A14-16&version=KJV;WLC): *"(14) And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days, and years: (15) And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth: and it was so. (16) And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night: he made the stars also."*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"מאורות , sensible lights... This is the root אור  light, determined into form by the plastic sign Mem. I have resorted to the word the mother vowels which the Chaldaic punctuation had suppressed; I have done the same in the following; but I must state that the suppression of these vowels is here necessitated by the hieroglyphic style. For the Divine Verb always expressing itself in the future, and the accomplishment of the will of the Being of beings, following likewise in the convertible future, the creation remains always in power, according to the meaning of the initial word בראשית. This is why the word מארת is deprived of the luminous sign not only in the singular, but also in the plural."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.44-45](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/44/mode/2up)]

> *"The 'lesser' light — the sub-conscious mind, is a link between the animal and man. Man, in his ascent to the human state of being, was at first in a state of darkness. The sub-conscious mind alone was developed in him. He could not 'think for himself'; he followed the promptings of instinct. The subconscious mind was his light and guide in the 'night'. Its greatness and its latent possibilities have, however, scarcely been realized in modern times.'"* [[The Unknown God, pp.46-47, 50-51](http://www.organelle.org/as/aschap9.htm)]

> von Rosenroth: *"...For the spouse is called the heaven, and the member of the treaty is the firmament, like as, therefore, the last two paths in the whole name IHVI, are designated by the letters Vav and Yod, so likewise these in this portion of the square are designated by the letters Yod and Heh. The Husband has dominion over the wife, since it is not written Vav but Yod, which is the symbol of the member of the treaty, and herein denotes the actual combination with the female: life as it is written [[Proverbs 10:25](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/10-25.htm)] 'And the just man is the foundation of the world'. But this saying he illustrates his meaning; because by the letter Yod is understood the fundamental member by which the world is reserved in existence."* [[Kabbalah Denudata](https://books.google.com/books?id=7X8ZfWvgtQUC&pg=PA62&lpg=PA62#v=onepage&q&f=false)]


> *"The word Meoroth (light) is here written defectively, indicating by this that the evil serpent is the author and originator of discord and separation of what should always be united and blended harmoniously together viz., the sun and the moon. This word also denotes the malediction by which, through the serpent, the earth became cursed, as it is written, 'Cursed is the ground because of thee' ([Gen. 3-17](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-17.htm)), and being found in the singular, signifies that the moon, designated by the words, 'Let there be light,' and the sun by the words, 'In the firmament,' were originally created together and formed one, in order to give their united light upon the earth, but through the serpent they became separated; hence it is written, 'Let them be for lights in the firmament of the Heaven,' to give light upon the earth, instead of 'Let them enlighten the earth,' and therefore we conclude that both in heaven above and on earth below, time is measured by the courses of the moon."* [[Zohar: Bereshith to Lekh Lekha, ch. 23](http://www.sacred-texts.com/jud/zdm/zdm032.htm)]


> > Supernal lights radiate in that 'firmament of the heaven' to  fashion in the lower world the requisite shapes, as it is written  *'and God set them in the firmament of the heaven... and to rule  by day and by night.'* (pp.86-87)... Let there be lights in the  firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth. The word  Meoroth (lights) is written defective.

> > Rabbie Hizkiah says that  this indicates that this firmament is the home of the rigor of Justice.

> > Rabbi Jose says that the defective spelling indicates  the lowest, namely the moon, which is the cause of croup in  children. It is also the cause of other misfortunes, because it  is the smallest of all the luminaries, and sometimes it is obscured and receives no light at all. In the Firmament of heaven; this is the firmament which includes all the others, since it receives all lights and it illumines the one which has no light of its own.

> > Rabbi Isaac said: *"Even that firmament which has no light of its own is called by us 'the kingdom of heaven' and 'the land of Israel' and 'the land of the living'. It is the heaven which illumines this firmament. Hence the word Meoroth is written defectively, to show that without Vav there would be death to the world. Everything is included in it, and through it Lilith also finds a place in the world. (we derive this from the recurrence of the word 'there' in the sentences: 'The small and the great are there' [Job 3:??] 'The Lord shall be with us there in Majesty [[Isaiah 33:21](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/33-21.htm)], and Lilith reposes there [[Isaiah 34:14](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/34-14.htm)]"*.

> > Rabbi Eleazar said: *"The word Meoroth (lights) being written defectively, indicates a shining body which has no light of its own, but only reflects the light of other more luminous bodies. It is written: 'Behold, the ark of the covenant, the Lord of all the earth' [[Joshua 3:11](http://biblehub.com/joshua/3-11.htm)]. The ark here is the 'unclear mirror'; the covenant is the 'clear mirror'. The ark is the receptacle for the written Torah, whereas the covenant is the sun that illumines it. The covenant is the 'Lord of all the Earth', and on its account the ark is also called [Adon](/keys/ADVN), אדון, (Lord) which is the same as [Adonai](/keys/ADNI), אדני, (the Lord). Observe that stars and planets exist through a covenant which is the firmament of the heaven, in which they are inscribed and engraved'. Rabbi Yesa the elder used to explain thus: 'the words' 'Let there be lights' refer to the moon, which is suspended in the firmament of the heaven. The words "And let them be for lights', indicate the sun"*

> > (pp.126-127) ... Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven, the omission of the Vav from the word Meoroth (so that it can be read Meeroth (curses)) indicates the inclusion of the evil serpent which be fouled the moon and separated it from the sun; thus causing the earth to be cursed [[Genesis 3:17](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-17.htm)]. the word IHI Yehi being in the singular shows that the word 'lights' refers to the moon, while 'the firmament of the heaven refers to the sun. thus the whole [text ends]

---

### [Ierathal](/keys/IRThAL) - ירתאל
> "God who punishes the wicked". 27th Shemhamphorash; 131°-135°. HÉP , Jupiter. April 5, June 26, September 6, November 17, January 28. 8:40-9:00 AM. [Psalm 140:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/140-1.htm): *"Deliver me, O Lord, from the evil man: preserve me from the violent man."* Confound the wicked and the calumniators, and for being deliver from our enemies. Protects against those who provoke us and attack us unjustly. Through the propagation of light, civilization and liberty. Person Born: Loves justice, the sciences and art, and distinguish themselves in literature. see [965](965), [1525](1525).

> The angel is attributed by Godwin to the 3rd quinance [10°-15°] of Sagittarius, and in also said to be the angel by day of the 9 of Wands. The 9 of Wands corresponds to Yesod, the sphere of the Moon or subconscious patterns, in Atziluth, the archetypal world of ideas. The letters of the angel's name suggest the power of divine will (Yod) acting through solar regenerative force (Resh) to construct and limit (Tav) the unbridled freedom and license, amoral in itself (Aleph) of those who work and act contrary to cosmic law (Lamed).

> Paul Case writes: *"It is important to recognize that which is represented by Yesod on the Tree is in its essence basically clean. Such impurity as may be found it is nothing that is characteristic of Yesod itself. As the seat of the automatic consciousness it responds to whatever is sent down to it from the self-conscious level. [This is indicated by the angel being assigned to "day" or self-conscious mentation]. Therefore one of its attributes is impressionability ... the 9 of Wands as Yesod in the world of principles is seen to be the principle behind the reproductive power of the One Self... we must realize that reproductive functions, no matter upon what plane they are expressing, are not evil potencies in themselves. When the reflection from Tiphareth is distorted, as an image of an imperfect mirror, the reflection will not mirror the perfection of its source... Key 14, Sagittarius... shows the Ego as the Holy Guardian Angel tempering and modifying the vital soul, pictured as the pool at the angel's feet. It is through the 24th Path of Samekh... that the direct influence of Tiphareth is brought to bear upon Yesod."* [Oracle of Tarot, #11, pp.1,2.4] see [60](60), [120](120), [80](80).

---

### [amarth](/keys/AMRTh) - אמרת
> dema purpureum [purple]. This is the color of yesod, the foundation or firmament. see [80](80), [233](233) (Greek).

---

## Latin

---

### [MDCCLXXVI + annuit coeptis + novus ordo seclorum + E pluribus unum](/latin?word=MDCCLXXVI+%2B+annuit+coeptis+%2B+novus+ordo+seclorum+%2B+E+pluribus+unum) (Lt)
> 1776 + He hath prospered our Undertaking + a new order of the ages + one out of many. The three mottos on the Great Seal of the U.S. with the date of the American Declaration of Independence. see [99](99), [150](150), [220](220). [172](172).

---

### See Also:

- [11](11)
- [2](2)
