## 650 - Six Hundred Fifty
> (2x5x5x13)

---

### [shelishi](/keys/ShLIShI) - שלישי
Third. [Genesis 1:13](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-13.htm): *"And the evening and the morning were the third day."*

---

### [domam](/keys/DVMMf) - דומם
> a great silence, still, silent, dumb in silence [Mem = 600] see [90](90).

---

### [yamim](/keys/IMMf) - ימם
> hot springs. [Genesis 36:24 (ESV)](http://biblehub.com/genesis/36-24.htm): *"These are the sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah; he is the Anah who found the hot springs in the wilderness, as he pastured the donkeys of Zibeon his father."* [Mem = 600] see [90](90).

(The KJV translates this word as "[the mules](/english?word=the+mules)")

---

### [myim](/keys/MIMf) - מים
> Letter Name Mem, meaning: waters. (mute, dark mirror). Alchemical water, microcosmically, is the cosmic fire specialized in the nerve currents and chemistry of the blood see [90](90).

---

### [nawthar](/keys/NThR) - נתר
> to tremble, to fall off (as the foliage or fruit of a tree).

---

### [nitar](/keys/NThR) - נתר
> to be torn loose, be released. Related to the hanged man-in some versions he holds behind him a bag, from which fall objects not very clearly drawn. Possibly coins symbolizing visible works or accomplishments.

---

### [nether](/keys/NThR) - נתר
> natron, a mineral alkali, either sodium nitrate or potassium nitrate, combined with oil to make soap. Also the Egyptian Nitre; together with various spices and Bitumen it was an important ingredient of the mixture used for embalming mummies. Nitre is associated both with cleansing, or purification, and with preservation. In alchemy the "sun" of Tiphareth, concocts nitre It is a stage of preparation of "Salt". It is a process of vitalizing the dead forms of sensation, and infusing them with seminal or reproductive powers. This happens by correctly perceiving the inner principles of anything. Nitre is more pure and more lasting than the forms it is derived from. see [160](160).

---

### [midebbar kadesh](/keys/MDBR.QDSh) - מדבר קדש
> the wilderness of Kadesh. [Psalm 29:8](http://biblehub.com/psalms/29-8.htm): *"The voice of the Lord shakes the wilderness; the Lord shakes the wilderness of Kadesh."* "Wilderness" also means mouth, speech (Peh) and Kadesh, with different points, means sanctity, holiness; to cleanse, purify. To wash hands and feet before a sacred act, to prepare the water of purification. Note that דבר is "word" and Mem may be "from" or "from the holy word". see [246](246), [404](404). The Lord cleanses and sanctifies with proper use of speech.

---

### See Also:

- [65](65)
- [11](11)
- [2](2)
