## 651 - Six Hundred Fifty-One
> (3x7x31)

###/keys/HALHIM [ha-Elohim]
> The Creative Powers (of God) [Mem = 600] see
91.

###/keys/MI IOLH LNV HShMIMH [mi ya'aleh-lanu hashemayimah]
> Who shall go up for us to the heavens?

[Deuteronomy 30:12](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/30-12.htm): *"It is not in heaven, that thou shouldest say, Who shall go up for us to heaven, and bring it unto us, that we may hear it, and do it?"*

###/keys/ThMVRH [Temurah]
> Permutation and substitution of letters. Hebrew cryptology.

> Also: recompense [Job 20:18] "that which he labored for shall he restore, and shall not swallow it down: according to his substance shall the restitution be, and he shall not rejoice therein." Also: permutation, change in QBLH Qabalah; Temurah, a tractate of the Talmud. see [441](441), [2945](2945).

###/keys/ShThVLVSh [Shatulosh]
> Day demon of 3rd decanate of Pisces. This decanate is ruled by Mars and suggest conscious imbalance, resulting in negative qualities of lack of attention, impoliteness and lack of tact. The 3rd decanate of Pisces corresponds to the 10 of Cups or the power of Malkuth, the physical plane, in Briah, the creative world. The Neptunian and Jupterian forces of Pisces are combined with the Scorpion Mars force. There is tremendous power of receptivity and psychic development which, when the personality instrument is too physically oriented, can cause much disturbance through overreceptivity to other thoughts and wishes, indecisiveness, and danger from psychism. If one does not interpret emanations from the creative plane with spiritual understanding and wisdom, these emanations can be the basis for the self un-doing and obsession connected with the ill-dignified aspects of the 10 of Cups. There is possibility of being influenced by others through the desire nature, when ill-dignified. When well-dignified, it can bring permanent and last success through inspiration from higher levels of consciousness.

## Greek/Latin

### telestai
> mysterious, "mystic rites". from τε ετ , a
making perfect: initiation in the mysteries, the celebration of
mysteries.

### naus
> Applied to a ship by the Greeks gives it a cosmic
meaning... it is probably for this reason that the church was
called a ship..., since the temple was designated as an image of
the universe." see 659 (Greek).

### ho parthenogenehs
> The virgin-born; an epithet of
Jesus. Related to the phrase "Logos of virginity". see 1480. Adds
to 2368, the value of Jesus Christ. see 888, 2368, 570.