## 652 - Six Hundred Fifty-Two
> (4x163)

---

### [katzel yawmenu Al ha-eretz](/keys/KTzL.IMINV.OL-HARTz) - 
> He hath made the earth by his powers [1 Chron. 29:15]. Translated in American Version as "For we are strangers before thee, and sojourners, as were all our fathers: Our days on the earth are as a shadow, and there is none abiding." Appropriate enough if we consider that the order, as raised to a cube by the second four brethren form the square suggested by the first four, is a symbol which from the days of Pythagoras has been associate with earth. [PFC, True and Invisible, Page 161].

> Note: these words appear in Jeremiah 10:12, 51:15 as OShH ARTz BKChV, Oseh eretz bekcho and their numeration is 702. Paul Case notes: "In the original HARTz is written with a large Aleph, so that the phrase may also be reckoned as 1651 = 127x13, which however, the Massoretic text use does not give the large Aleph."

---

### [rebbothim](/keys/RBThIM) - 
> two myriads [Psalm 68:17]. "The chariots of God are 22,000, even thousands of angels: the Lord is among them, as in Sinai, in the Holy Place." (AmericanVersion) The word "myriad" means ten thousand.

---

### [CRC.GV.IA.IO.GG.PD.RC.B](/keys/KRK.GV.IA.IO.GG.PD.RK.B) - 
> *"If the [Rosicrucian] Founder's initials are taken as C.R.C., then the total value of the initials of the eight original Brethren is 652, which is significant to a Christian Qabalist because it is twice 326, and 326 is the value of the Christian Qabalistic spelling of Yeheshua, or Jesus: IHShVH. This is a spelling found in innumerable Qabalistic writings contemporary with the FAMA, or published within the next 50 years. It has, of course a direct bearing on the Rosicrucian motto: Jesus Mihi Omnia..."* [True and Invisible (WeiserBooks) p. 96]. see 312, 8, 150 Latin; 632, 702, 291.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### hoi gigantes (Gr)
> the mighty men. Septuagint translation of HNPILIM (#785) in [Genesis 6:4](http://biblehub.com//.htm) *"There were giants on the earth in those days; and also afterward--when the sons of God went to the daughters of men and had children by them, they became the mighty men of old, men of renown."* see 785.

---

### See Also:

- [13](13)
- [4](4)
