## 655 - Six Hundred Fifty-Five
> (5x131)

###/keys/MADIM Madim
> Mars, Powers of vehement strength. The masculine
plural of MAD, Meode, "strength, might," and as an adverb: very,
exceedingly. see 95.

###/keys/HMIM ha-Mem
> the waters. see 95.

###/keys/SPR ITzIRH Sepher Yetzirah
> the Book of Formation, or one of the
principal Qabalistic texts. "Ascribed to the patriarch Abraham.
It treats of the cosmogony as symbolized by the ten numbers and
the 22 letters of the alphabet, which it calls the '32 Paths'.
The term 'path' is used throughout the Qabalah to signify a
hieroglyphic idea, or rather the sphere of ideas, which may be
attached to any glyph or symbol." [ML 1:5]

###/keys/ShHM IQR Soham Yaqar
> the precious onyx [Job 28:16]. see 80, 85,
549, 226, 876, 345.

###/keys/HIKL OTzM ShMIM hekel etzem shamaim
> Palace of the body of
heaven; heavenly mansion corresponding to Netzach (Victory),
sphere of Venus on the Tree of Life. see 4775, 65, 200, 390, 148.

###/keys/HQDVSh BRVK HVA ha-Qadosh Barukh Hu
> The Holy One, blessed be He
[Godwin]. Referred to in [Isaiah 10:17] "And the light of Israel
shall be for a fire, and his Holy One for a flame: and it shall
burn and devour his thorns and his briers in one day." see 1135,
12, 228, 207, 541, 44.

###/keys/MShM ROH mishahm roeh
> from thence is the shepherd. [Genesis
49:24] "But his [Joseph's] bow abode of strength, and the arms of
his hands were made strong by the hands of the mighty God of
Jacob (from thence is the shepherd, the stone of Israel)". The
Zohar has "From the ??? is fed." A power which protects, shelters
and nourishes. Plainly stated here, the shepherd "is from the
Stone." The "the precious onyx" is the Stone, "the light of the
stars", "Shiloh" and "high". see 594.

###/keys/KI-QRVB ALIK HDBR MAD kei-qarob alika ha-dabar medde
> But the
word is very nigh unto thee. [Deuteronomy 30:14] "But the word is
very nigh unto thee, in thy mouth, and in thy heart that thou
mayest do it." see 1633, 978, 308, 206, 61.