## 665 - Six Hundred Sixty-Five
> (5x7x19)

---

### ['oseh-peri](/keys/OShH-PRI) - עשה־פרי
"yielding fruit". [Genesis 1:12](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-2.htm): *"And the earth brought forth grass, and herb yielding seed after his kind, and the tree **yielding fruit,** whose seed was in itself, after his kind: and God saw that it was good.
"*

> The Zohar [I:18B, 19A] also comments: *"Fruit tree bearing fruit. One degree above another, these combining male and female. just as 'fruit tree' produced the most of 'trees bearing fruit', so the latter in true produced 'cherubim and pillars'. 'Pillars' are those that go up in the smoke of the sacrifices and derive their strength there from, and hence are called 'pillars of smoke', and all of them exist permanently for the 'service of man', whereas the 'grass' has no permanence being destined to be consumed as food, as it is written: 'Behold now Behemoth, which I made with thee; he eats grass like an ox' [[Job 40:15](http://biblehub.com/job/40-15.htm)]. The words 'fruit tree bearing fruit' indicate the form of male and female in combination (p.79)"*

> *"... The four letters of the Tetragrammaton... are engraved on the throne, and the throne is decorated with them, one to the right, one to the left, one in front, and one behind, corresponding to the four quarters of the world. The throne when it ascends is stamped with these four likenesses. These four supernal names bear along the throne, and the throne is comprised in them, and collects a harvest of longing desires. When it has collected these desires, it descends with its burden like a tree laden with branches on all sides and full of fruit. As soon as it descends these four likenesses come forth in their several shapes emitting bright flashes which scatter seed over the world. Hence it is written, 'herb yielding seed', because these scatter seed over the world. But of the issuing forth of the likeness of man which comprises all the other likenesses [of the Cherubim] it is written, '"Fruit tree yielding fruit after its kind, the seed of which is in it on the earth.' It produces no seed save for propagation. The term 'in it' should be noticed. It teaches us that man may not emit his seed idly. This is hinted in the word 'verdure' which can be shaped or engraved in any manner at all. Such things show themselves but to vanish: they have not acquired form and likeness, and have no permanency; they exist only for a moment and then are consumed in the fire which devours fire, and are continually renewed or devoured."* (pp.80-81)

---

### [pethah einayim](/keys/PThH.OINIM) - פתה עינים
> The eye-opener. [Zohar 1:4]: *"Rabbi Eleazar opened his discourse with the text: 'Lift up your eyes on high and see: who has created these?' ([Isaiah 40:26](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/40-26.htm) "Lift up your eyes on height', to which place? To that place to which all eyes are turned, to wit, petah enaim ('eye opener')."* [פתה socket, female pudenda; פתה to be open; to be simple, be foolish; to be deceived; פתה to be seduced].

> פתה [pethah](/keys/PThH) = [485](485) = "out of the heavens"; עינים [oinim](/keys/OINIM) = 180 = קף [Qoph](/keys/QP), "back of the head". see [100](100), [259](259), [130](130), [70](70).

---

### [koresh Melekadi babel](/keys/KVRSh.MLKADI.BBL) - כורש מלכאדי בבל
> Cyrus, King of Babylon. [Ezra 5:13](http://biblehub.com/ezra/5-13.htm): *"But in the first year of Cyrus, the King of Babylon the same King Cyrus made a decree to build this house of God."* see [526](526), [90](90), [34](34), [950](950), [956](956).

---

### [beth harechem](/keys/BITh.HRChM) - בית הרחם
> "house of love." the womb [Mathers: Sepher Sephiroth, p.57]

---

### See Also:

- [17](17)
- [8](8)
