## 666 - Six Hundred Sixty-Six
> Number of the Beast. 2x9x37. [15x15 + 21x21]. Σ[36](36) = 666. Also the sum of the squares of the first seven prime numbers: (2x2 + 3x3 + 5x5 + 7x7 + 11x11 + 13x13 + 17x17 = 666).

> The total numbers in the magic square of the sun, and the value of the magic line of the sun. A solar number representing man as a center of solar sctivity and referring specifically to Tiphareth.

> We think of this number usually as being that of the mysterious Beast mentioned in Revelation. It is actually a solar number, and in the Apocalypse its special meaning is a cryptic reference to the Roman Empire, and to one particular Caesar, Nero. For the symbol of the Caesars was a solar disk, and the essential spirit of Roman imperialism was a crass, materialistic exaltation of physical force. *[Gematria PFC]*

> [Revelation 13:18](http://biblehub.com/revelation/13-18.htm): *"Here is wisdom. Let him that hath understanding count the number of the beast: for it is the number of a man; and his number is Six hundred threescore and six."*

---

### [Neron Qaesar](/keys/NRVN.QSR) - נרון קסר
> Nero Caesar [Hebrew spelling of a Latin name]. The 'beast' mentioned in the Apocalypse [Revelation 13:18](http://biblehub.com/revelation/13-18.htm) *"Here is wisdom. Let him that has understanding count the number of the beast: for it is the number of a man, and his number is 666."* Nero was the "beast" because he had assumed divinity and used solar symbols (Apollo). A cryptic reference to the Spirit of Roman imperialism--materialistic exaltation of physical force, which has lasted until present times. see [616](616), [1316](1316).

---

### [Hashelek al-Yahweh yehabika wehu yekal kelikah](/keys/HShLK.OLIHVH.IHBK.VHVA.IKL.KLK)
**השלך על-יהוה יהבך והוא יכלכלך**

> [Psalm 55:22](http://biblehub.com/psalms/55-22.htm): *"**Cast thy burden upon the LORD, and he shall sustain thee:** he shall never suffer the righteous to be moved."* see [1554](1554).

---

### [yehi meoroth](/keys/IHI.MARTh) - יהי מארת
> "Let there be luminaries." [Genesis 1:14](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-14.htm): *"And God said, 'Let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from the night. And let them be for signs and for seasons, and for days and years'"*

---

### [oseh eretz](/keys/OShH.ARTz) - עשה ארץ
> *"he has made the earth"* [Jeremiah 51:15, 10:12](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=jer+51%3A15%2C10%3A12&version=ESV). *"He has made the earth by his power, he has established the world by his wisdom, and has stretched out the heaven by his understanding."* see [702](702), [652](652), [1476](1476).

---

### [Elohikam](/keys/ALHIKMf) - אלהיכם
> Your God [Amos 5:26](http://biblehub.com/amos/5-26.htm). It is the value of the "secret place" of God, mentioned in [Psalm 18:11](http://biblehub.com/psalms/18-11.htm) (He made darkness his hiding place). (M = 600, see [106](106))

---

### [sithru](/keys/SThRV) - סתרו
> His secret place, his covering. [Psalm 18:11](http://biblehub.com/psalms/18-11.htm): *"He made darkness his secret [i.e. hiding] place; his pavilion round about him were dark waters and thick clouds of the skies."* The material world veils spiritual truth. see [994](994).

---

### [Istahar](/keys/ASThHR) - אסתהר
> the planet Venus (Aramaic), and the goddess Ishtar. Remember that BN Ben the son, and AIMA Aima, the mother are both the number 52.

---

### [Sorath](/keys/SVRTh) - סורת
> the Spirit of the Sun. The radiant physical energy which is the source of all personal activity. The outer vesture of the spiritual sun.

---

### [Shemesh-Jehovah](/keys/ShMSh.IHVH) - שמש יהוה
> Sun of Jehovah (Tiphareth). He had assumed divinity and used solar symbols. [Revelation 13:16](http://biblehub.com/revelation/13-16.htm)

---

### [Shem Yeheshuah](/keys/ShM.IHShVH) - שם יהשוה
> The Name Jesus, Qabalistic spelling. It signifies The idea (name or word) that the nature of Reality is to liberate. *"You shall know the truth and the truth will set you free"*, in Jesus' words. "Reality sets us free", this is the true secret of the power of the name of Jesus. Because to that meaning all that is said of this name is true, all that has been claimed for it is true, even the claim that no other name given among men has power to deliver us. [Paul Case: The Name of Names] see [326](326), [340](340), [1226](1226).

---

### [Nahthan le-hem ha-Elohim](/keys/NThN.LHM.HALHIM) - נתן להם האלהים
> God gave them.

---

### [Romayeth](/keys/RVMIITh) - רומיית
> A Rabbinical term designating the Latin language. The dominance of Rome through pagan sun-worship, symbolized by the beast (the Emperor) was the logical outcome of the materialistic belief.

---

### [thesaru](/keys/ThSRV) - תסרו
> you shall turn aside (G.G. Locks).

---

### [Ayron ha-qodesh](/keys/ARVN.HQDSh) - ארון הקדש
> The Holy Ark (on which the tables of the law were written). see [257](257)

---

### [Ommo-Saittan](/keys/OMMV.SThN) - עממו סתן
> Ommo-Satan, the 'evil triad' of Satan- Apohras, Typhon, Besz, attributed to Yesod, sphere of the Moon of the Tree of Life. "Stoop not down into the darkly-splendid world', says the Chaldean Oracles. *"...It is termed the place of the evil one, the slayer of Osiris [i.e. the sun]. He is the tempter, accuser and punisher of the brethren. Wherefore he is frequently represented in Egypt with the head of a water-dragon, the body of a lion or leopard and the hindquarters of a waterhorse. He is the administrator of the evil triad, of which the members are: Apophraz, the stooping dragon; Satan-Typhon, the slayer of Osiris; Besz, the brutal power of demoniac force."* [The Secret Rituals of the Golden Dawn, pp. 52-53]

---

### [ha-Edomim](/keys/HADVMIMf) - האדומים
> The Edomities; i.e. those who ruled the kingdoms of unbalanced forces. [Paul Case, Notes on Numbers]. [Mem = 600] see [106](106).

---

### [Nashimiron](/keys/NShIMIRVN) - נשימירון
> "Malignant women" or "the Snaky"; Qlippoth of Pisces. see [1316](1316).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Chi-Xi-Stigma](/greek?word=chksS) (Gr) - χξϛ
*"In the Textus Receptus, derived from Byzantine text-type manuscripts, the number 666 is represented by the final 3 letters χξϛ."* (NOTE stigma, ϛ, represents the number 6) [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Number_of_the_Beast#666)

---

### [Euporia](/greek?word=euporia) (Gr) - ευπορια
> material wealth, materialism, gold. [Acts 19:25](http://biblehub.com/acts/19-25.htm). Used in a context which identifies it with revenues derived from idolatry. A quotation from the mouth of the Ephesian Silver smith, Demetrius. Implies Materialism.

> In [Acts 19:25](http://biblehub.com/acts/19-25.htm), Gold, material wealth, materialism. In classical Greek:

> - 1. facility in moving; facility in doing.
> - 2. readiness of supply; means, resources.
> - 3. plenty, store, wealth.
> - 4. revenues derived from idolatry. see [160](160).

---

### [Heh phren](/greek?word=h+phrhn) (Gr) - η φρην
> Lower Mind. Probably from xxx "to rein in, to curb". In plural, the midriff or the muscle which parts the heart and lungs from the lower viscera. In Homer, both in singular and plural the heart, mind, understanding, reason. Thus its relates to Tiphareth, the seat of the Ego-sense, derived from Kether. see [538](538), [597](597) (Greek); [1105](1105) (Greek); [200](200), [1081](1081), [53](53), [640](640).

---

### [Ho Seraphas](/greek?word=o+seraphas) (Gr) - 
> Serapis. Egyptian god Apis, the element of Earth, the animal nature of man. The worship of Apis, in connection with that of Isis, was spread over the Roman world, at the beginning of the Christian era. Apis was a copy of the "Golden Calf."

---

### pharadoisis (Gr)
> Traditions of men, as opposed to the ordinances of God. They limit human freedom by imposing standards of behavior having no foundation in the real nature of things. 1. a handing down of traditions. 2. a giving up, surrender. 3. the transmission, or handing down, of legends. Omikron adds" ('tradition'). The passing on, during personal intercourse, of a master's teaching and methods to his accepted pupils. The word usually implies that which is unwritten: and also an inner knowledge privileged to the suitable few." [Letters from Paulos, p.261]

---

### Syene
> An Egyptian place-name [Canon, p.77], which indicated the boundary of the sun's path: *"When Eratoshenes took his observations for determining the circumference of the earth, he is said to have been informed that when a pit was dug at Syene in Egypt, the sun's ray's at the summer solstice shone perpendicularly into it. This place was subsequently considered by the Greeks to mark the northern tropic."* It was known that the sun's orbit was contained in an arc whose internal length was 666 of its own diameter.

---

### Teitan (Gr)
> Sol, Phoebus.

---

### to mega therion
> the great beast. i.e. nero.

---

### Antithos esti
> He is anti-God.

---

### Apollumentha
> we perish. [Matthew 8:25] "...Lord save us, we perish"

---

### ho speiras
> the sower of tares. Referred to in [Matthew 13:39]. (38) *"The field is the world; the good seed are the sons of the kingdom; the darnel (tares) are the sons of the evil one; (39) That enemy who sowed them is the adversary; the harvest is the end of the age; and the reapers are the messengers."*

---

### Vicarius Filii Dei (Lt)
> Vicar of the Son of God. Note that Filii, son, is the number [43](43). See [154](154).

	.V  I  C  a  r  I  V  s    f  I  L  I  I    D  e  I
	100+1+100+0 +0 +1 +5 +0   +0 +1+50 +1 +1  +500+0 +1 = 666
---

### D.C.; L.X.; V.I. (Lt)
> Sum of the only 6 numerical letters the Romans used.

---

### Ecce Bestia Magna (Lt)
> Here is the Great Beast.

### See Also:

- [18](18)
- [9](9)
