## 678 - Six Hundred Seventy-Eight
> (2x3x113)

---

### [Arabhoth](/keys/ORBVTh) - ערבות
> Plains; the 7th Heaven corresponding to the 3 Supernals. According to Godwin, the "plains" are the 7th heaven, corresponding to the 3 supernal sephiroth: Kether, Chokmah and Binah. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.634] calls this word planitles coeli, and says that in the Zohar it refers to Yesod. Also that Tiphareth is called ORBITh in combination, because Geburah and Gedulah (Chesed) are mixed or combined in it, thus in Yesod, Netzach and Hod are combined, because they are the powers of Gedulah and Geburah.

---

### [eth-hakerubim](/keys/ATh-HKRBIM) - את־הכרבים
> THE CHERUBIM. [Genesis 3:24](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-24.htm): *"So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the Garden of Eden **Cherubims**, and a flaming sword which turns every way, to keep the way of the Tree of Life."* [Written here with the sign of the ???, meaning Qabalistically "essence"]. see [277](277), [401](401).

---

### [Adam Belial](/keys/ADMf.BLIAL) - אדם בליאל
> Arch-demon corresponding (according to Waite) to Chokmah. Belial means unprofitable or wicked; thus, "wicked man". [Mem = 600] see [118](118).

---

### [Cham](/keys/ChOMf) - חעם
> 38th Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 2nd quinance of Aquarius. Also written, ChOMIH, Hamiah, "God, the hope of all the children of the earth"; Angel of the 5 of Swords- Geburah of Yetzirah, or the operation of divine volition in the world of formation. see 133. It corresponds also to the 1st decanate of Aquarius, ruled by Saturn and Uranus. When welldignified, it can indicate adversity in material affairs; in spiritual matters it portends apparent troubles which work out ultimately to good result. The angel's name suggest the power within the field of endeavor, (Cheth), welling forth in apparent limitation (Ayin), but resulting in stability (Mem).

---

### [Chamish Tushiyah](/keys/ChMSh.TVShIH) - חמש טושיה
> Quintessence; the alchemical fifth essence or spirit. see [348](348).

---

### [eth-ha'oreb](/keys/ATh-HORB) - את־הערב
THE RAVEN. [Genesis 8:7](https://biblehub.com/genesis/8-7.htm): *"And he sent forth a raven, which went forth to and fro, until the waters were dried up from off the earth."*

---

### [markebothiyu](/keys/MRKBThIV) - מרכבתיו
from his chariot. [Exodus 14:25](https://biblehub.com/exodus/14-25.htm): *"And took off **their chariot** wheels, that they drave them heavily: so that the Egyptians said, Let us flee from the face of Israel; for the LORD fighteth for them against the Egyptians"*

---

### [taaboru](/keys/ThOBRV) - תעברו
you may pass by. [Genesis 18:5](https://biblehub.com/genesis/18-5.htm): *"And I will fetch a morsel of bread, and comfort ye your hearts; after that **ye shall pass on:** for therefore are ye come to your servant. And they said, So do, as thou hast said"*

---

### See Also:

- [21](21)
- [3](3)
- [Bible Wheel: 678](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=678)

