## 680 - Six Hundred Eighty
> (5x8x17)

### [baarboth](/keys/BORBVTh) - בערבות
> In the sky or heaven or wilderness.

### [ruachnioth](/keys/RVChNIVTh) - רוחניות
> Spiritual. Part of the title of the intelligence of [Teth](/keys/T), [Key 8](8) (strength), the secret of all spiritual activities. see [685](685), [1702](1702).

### [kinnim](/keys/KNIMf) - כנים
> vermin.

### [Phrath](/keys/PRTh) - פרת
> Euphrates, a river of Eden (associated with Earth).

> According to Fabre D'Olivet *"הוא פרת, that is the fecundating cause... The Hellenist having seen the Tigris in the allegorical river הדקל the swift propagator spoken of my Moses, have not failed to profit here, by a slight resemblance in the sound of the words, to see the Euphrates in הוא פרת, that which fecundates, without concerning themselves with what they had said of the two preceding rivers: but only a little attention is needed to see that הוא is a masculine pronoun which governs the nominal pronoun פרת, the action of fecundating."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp.81-82].

> For Euphrates, see [1514](1514) (Greek). Gaskell says that the Euphrates river is a symbol of the physical plane, including the etheric. *[Dictionary of All Scriptures and Myths, p.254]*

### [pawthar](/keys/PThR) - פתר
> to explain, interpret. [Genesis 41:15](http://biblehub.com/genesis/41-15.htm): *"And Pharaoh said unto Joseph. I have dreamed a dream, and there is not that can interpret it. ([16](http://biblehub.com/genesis/41-16.htm)) And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, it is not in me: God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace."* see [370](370).

### [tawphar](/keys/ThPR) - תפר
> to sew, to sew together; to stitch, mend.

> [Genesis 3:7](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-7.htm): *"And the eyes of them both were opened, and they now that they were naked; and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons."*

> [Job 16:15](http://biblehub.com/job/16-15.htm): *"I have sewed sackcloth upon my skin, and defiled my horn in the dust."* see 350, 281.

> Also תפר, [tepher](/keys/). seam, stitch.

### [teraph](/keys/ThRP) - תרף
> "the sustainer". Metathesis of the preceding three words. God is what sustains, interprets, binds together and makes fruitful the life of mankind.

### [toreph](/keys/ThRP) - תרף
> The essential parts of a document, the variable particulars of a document as distinguished form the fixed formula; nakedness. see [730](730).

### [shelshim](/keys/ShLShIM) - שלשים
> "thirty"; value of Lamed, the ox-goad, which teaches and instructs through equilibrated action. see [30](30), [74](74).

> The numbers of men slain by Samson at, [Ashkelon](/keys/AShQLVN) ("weighing place", 487) in [Judges 14:19](http://biblehub.com/judges/14-19.htm): *"And the spirit of the Lord came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and he seized thirty of their men, and he slew them and took their garments, and gave them to those who had interpreted his riddle. And his anger was kindled, and he went up to his father's house."*

> The riddle is: What is sweeter than honey and stronger than a lion? Answer: a heifer (i.e. little Aleph). Recall that ox-goad Lamed, is that which incites the Ox, Aleph into Action. see [1240](1240), [852](852) (Greek). Kindling anger and rise of Mars force into the Mercury center.

### [shawlishim](/keys/ShLShIM) - שלשים
> three fold, three times; "excellent things" (from the signification of 3) in [Proverbs 22:20](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/22-20.htm): *"Have I not written to you excellent things in councils and knowledge."* see [640](640), [650](650).

## Greek/Latin:

### [Huios](/greek?word=uios) (Gr) - υιος
> Son (reference to Jesus).

### [heh megaleiotehs](/greek?word=h+megaleioThs) (Gr) - η μεγαλειότητης
> the majesty, greatness or glory. Written μεγαλειότητι in [Luke 9:43](http://biblehub.com/luke/9-43.htm): *"And they were all struck at the majestic power of God..."*

> And μεγαλειότητος in [2 Peter 1:16](http://biblehub.com/2_peter/1-16.htm): *"For we have not been following cunningly devised tales, in making known to you the power and appearance of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were beholders of the greatness."*

> Related to the phrase "the fullness". Adds to [2109](2109). With [word], adds to [2368](2368), the value of Jesus Christ.

> In the Septuagint this phrase translates the word תפארת, [Tiphareth](/keys/ThPARTh), Beauty in [Jeremiah 33:9](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/33-9.htm): *"And it shall be to me a name of joy, a praise and an honor before all the nations of the earth, which shall hear all the good that I do unto them: and they shall fear and tremble for all the goodness and for all the prosperity that I procured unto it."* goodness = majesty.

### See Also:

- [14](14)
- [5](5)