## 685 - Six Hundred Eighty-Five
> (5x137)

### [ha-ruachniyuth](/keys/HRVChNIVTh) - הרוחניות
> the spiritual. Part of the title of the [19th path](19) of wisdom, attributed to [Teth](/keys/T); "The Intelligence of the Secret of All Spiritual Activities." see [680](680), [1702](1702).

### [sheyin haw-no'ar](/keys/ShIN.HNOR) - שין הנער
> Urine of the babe. Raymond Lully's name for he first matter. נער [nor](/keys/NOR) also means boy, lad, youth; servant, retainer; scattering, scattered one. שין [Shin](/keys/ShIN) is the letter-name symbolizing the element Fire; another translation might be "Fire of the Boy". In [Key 20](20) the boy is the regenerated consciousness. see [320](320), [360](360), [501](501).

### [eiphah tzedeq](/keys/AIPTh.TzDQ) - איפת צדק
> a just ephah. [Leviticus 19:36](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/19-36.htm): *"Just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin, shall you have: I am the Lord you God, which brought you out of the Land of Egypt."* see [257](257), [302](302), [259](259), [194](194).

### [ani IHVH alohi kal-bashar](/keys/ANI.IHVH.ALHI.KL-BShR) - אני יהוה אלהי כל־בשר
> *"I am the Lord, the God of all mankind (flesh)"* [Jeremiah 32:27](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/32-27.htm). see [61](61), [26](26), [46](46), [50](50), [502](502).

### [Sepher Moshe](/keys/SPR.MShH) - ספר משה
Sepher Moses; the Book of Moses. Also known as "Book M" in the Fama. See [53](53) (Lt), [78](78) (Lt), [380](380).

## Greek/Latin:

### [ioudas](/greek?word=ioudas) (Gr) - Ἰούδας
Judas. [Matthew 10:4](http://biblehub.com/matthew/10-4.htm): *"...and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him."*

> Gaskell gives: *"This symbol of one of the 12 disciplined qualities of the soul signifies the lowest of these qualities, the quality that happens to be the least raised of all of them. It becomes, therefore, the symbol of limitation,--the lowest point, on which the superstructure of the higher nature is built up from. In the process of involution of Spirit into matter, it is the Highest which descends to the lowest; but in the present process of evolution it is Spirit that ascends form the lowest point to the Highest. The lowest point, then, "Judas," contains the potentiality of all things evolutional. It signifies the condition of absolute limitation, which seems nothingness form the physical or lower-mind standpoint, but form the Spiritual standpoint, but from the Spiritual side it implies all-being. Limitation (Saturn) is thus the symbol of its direct antithesis, illimitability, and its visible sign. So it is that the germinal point (.)--the least element in the production of form,-becomes the fitting symbol of life everlasting. In other words, the quality 'Judas' interiorly symbolizes that state whence blossoms perfection or finality. Superficially, 'Judas' may stand for prudence changing to contrition." He quotes [[Matthew 26:21](http://biblehub.com/matthew/26-21.htm)]: "And as they were eating, Jesus said, 'verily I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me.'" And comments: "The Christ-soul knew that the lower nature was to yet completely purified,-hence his accusation of one of the qualities. Had the lover nature been completely purified there was no need for the anguish which was to be experienced at the crossing over. The connection between the 'cross' is the symbol of matter upon which the Christ-soul was, as it were, 'crucified', and Judas is a symbol of limitation which is at once the lowest and the foundation of the highest. Thus the least raised quality in the soul is a symbol of matter on which the spirit is offered up... the first drop issuing from a bottom tap in a barrel full of water may be taken as the first limited manifestation of the truth within, and therefore the foundation of the actual which gradually evolves to perfection as the potential (water in barrel) externalized to completion. 'Judas' may signify the lowest drop at any stage of the process, and the lower limitation of the higher which is to follow."* [Dictionary of All Scriptures and Myths, pp. 418-419]

> Kingsford and Maitland write: *"Thus the number 13, which on the earthy plane, and before the 'crucifixion' is, through the treachery of 'Judas', the symbol of the imperfection and illfortune, becomes, in the 'Kingdom of the Father', the symbol of perfection."* [The Perfect Way, p.247]

> Carlo Suares maintains: that *"There are two 'Satans'. One is Peter. The other is introduced by Jesus into Judas. This may startle some readers, but is clearly stated by Matthew and by John. These two 'Satans' are direct illustrations of (for Peter) the refusal and (for Judas) the acceptance of the death-resurrection of Jesus, hence for themselves and for their world. The questions of who accepts and who reject a certain event may not be immediately apparent. It is, however, supremely important. It is the key, not only to the understanding of Jesus's teaching, not only to receiving the entire Biblical revelation, but also to an understanding of the causes of the generation failure to perceive clearly the cosmic vocation of perfect human-hood."* [The Passion of Judas, pp.10-11]

### See Also:

- [19](19)
- [10](10)
- [1](1)


