## 696 - Six Hundred Ninety-Six
> (8x87)

---

### [matzaphon zhub yathah](/keys/MTzPVN.ZHB.IAThH) - מצפון זהב יאתה
> Gold cometh from the North. [Job 37:22](http://biblehub.com/job/37-22.htm). Enlightenment has its origin in the hidden sources of power which terrify the ignorant.

---

### [shemeni ha-eretz](/keys/ShMNI.HARTz) - שמני הארץ
> Oiliness of the Earth [Genesis 27:28](http://biblehub.com/genesis/27-28.htm). In Secret Symbols [p.48] the alchemical first matter is comprised of the "Dew of Heaven" and "the oiliness of the Earth." A metaphor for "fertile fields" -- the active power of reproduction, which is the driving force expressed in he evolution of forms from lower to higher levels of expression. The "oiliness of the earth", then is human flesh and those incarnating the forces of heaven, and expressing these forces in the "word made flesh", dwelling within us. see [434](434), [1757](1757) (Greek).

---

### [vayekera Elohim la-aur yom](/keys/VIQRA.ALHIM.LAVR.IVM) - ויקרא אלהים לאור יום
> And God called the light Day. [Genesis 1:5](http://biblehub.com//.htm). Day is manifest. All manifestation is the phenomenal expression of the powers of light. see [740](740), [2775](2775) (Greek).

---

### [tsoreth](/keys/TzVRTh) - צורת
> form. [Ezekiel 43:11](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/43-11.htm). *"And if they be ashamed of all that they have done, show them the form of the house..."* All forms whatever are forms of light. From root צור ([tsoor](/keys/TzVR)) rock, meaning: to press, to confine, to render compact. Form is the result of the compression or condensation of energy which is Light. see [296](296).

---

### [Esh ha-Shamaim](/keys/ASh.HShMIM) - אש השמים
> Fire of Heaven. The cosmic Life-force (Mars) pictured in [Key 16](16). see [899](899), [434](434).

---

### [lo yieyeh-leka Elohim acherim alpana](/keys/LA.IHIH-LK.ALHIM.AChRIM.OL-PNI) - לא יהיה־לך אלהים אחרים על־פני
> Thou shalt have no other gods before me. The Zohar: *"Thou shall have no other gods before me (literally, before my face). Said Rabbi Isaac: "This prohibition of 'other gods' does not include the Shekinah; 'before my face' does not include the 'face of the king' (The sephiroth), in which the holy king manifest himself, and which are his name and identical with him. That they are his name is shown by the verse: "I am IHVH, that is my name." [Isaiah 42:8](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/42-8.htm). Thus he and his name are one. Blessed be his name forever and ever."* [pp.260-261]

---

### [El Elohay ha-ruachoth](/keys/AL.ALHI.HRVChTh) - אל אלהי הרוחת
> The God of Spirits. [Numbers 16:22](http://biblehub.com/numbers/16-22.htm) *"And they fell on their faces, and said 'O God, the God of the spirits of all flesh, shall one man sin, and will you be angry with all the congregation."*

> The Zohar [I:17A, p.71] says: *"Unity was retained in the central pillar from that surplus of light which was in it. For since that central pillar was complete in itself and made peace on all sides, additional light was left to it from above and from all sides through the universal joy in it. From that additional joy came forth the foundation of worlds, which was also called misaf (additional). From this issue all the lower powers and spirits and holy souls, alluded to in the expression 'Lord of Hosts' (IHVH Tzabaoth) and 'God the god of Spirits' [Numbers 10:22](http://biblehub.com/numbers/10-22.htm)."*

---

### [awthiqa yomin](/keys/OThIQ.IVMIN) - עתיק יומין
> the ancient of days: A title of God. [Daniel 7:13](http://biblehub.com/daniel/7-13.htm): *"I saw in the night visions, and, behold, one like the son of man came with the clouds of heaven, and came to the Ancient of Days."* This title is often attributed to Kether. see also [Key 4](4), #[647](647), [1395](1395), [1233](1233), [996](996), [581](581), [599](599), [620](620), [733](733), [391](391), [422](422).

---

### See Also:

- [21](21)
- [3](3)
