## 701 - Seven Hundred One
> (prime)

---

### [On](/keys/ANf) - אן
> An Egyptian god. also Heliopolis, the city of the "sun" in the bible. [Genesis 41:45](http://biblehub.com/genesis/41-45.htm).

---

### [an](/keys/ANf) - אן
> where? Written אנה in [Psalm 139:7](http://biblehub.com/psalms/139-7.htm): *"Where shall I go from your spirit? Or where shall I flee from you presence?"* [Nun = 700]

---

### [ve-hinneh shelshah](/keys/VHNH.ShLShH) - והנה שלשה
> "And behold, three..." the first words of [Genesis 18:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/18-2.htm), describing Abraham's confrontation with 3 men represent God.

---

### [Elu Michael Gabriel ve-Raphael](/keys/ALV.MIKAL.GBRIAL.VRPAL) - אלו מיכאל גבריאל ורפאל
> "These are Michael, Gabriel, and Raphael." This tells who the 3 men were (see above).

---

### [Sekhel ha-Ratzon](/keys/ShKL.HRTzVN) - שכל הרצון
> Intelligence of Will. The [20th Path](20) of [Yod](/keys/I). Connects the cosmic memory of Chesed with the Ego in Tiphareth. Gives the ability to discern that the "Will" power felt in the body is the surge of the Light-force through the blood stream, nerve and tissue-the inner light of the Hermit's Lantern. True magical will is perfect obedience. It takes one from intellectual recognition of the true nature of the central Ego to perfect identification with cosmic memory by meditation-listening with profound attention to the instruction of the inner voice. The possessor of this path leads to knowledge of eternal laws of the infinite whirling motion of the Limitless Light. One does nothing of himself, but all details of Life, because of being an unobstructed channel for the divine beneficence-of the paternal wisdom and love-are perfect manifestations of the heavenly order. see [346](346), [107](107), [20](20), [351](351).

> *"The Qabalistic commentary on the 20th Path says "it prepares all created beings, each individuality, for the demonstration of the existence of the primordial glory'... He perceives that any form of the Life-power's self-expression may preserve its identity through endless ages, and yet be free from the illusion of false isolation which is the root of all selfishness."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p.108-109] see [1351](1351)

> *"Now comes the path of Yod, which carries the influence of Mercy into Beauty, concentrated in a complete realization of the cosmic purpose indicated by the name of the path, Intelligence of Will. In the Tarot the Hermit, far form being a conventional type of priest, illustrates the masculine expression of beneficence Chesed, through Yod, the letter of the father. This will be clear upon examination of the ninth key of the Tarot."* [32 Paths]

> *"I am the Intelligence of Will, knowing the way, the truth and the light."* [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom]

---

### [malakim](/keys/MLAKIMf) - מלאכים
> angels; messengers (see [141](141)).

---

### [etzerenu be-shem IHVH](/keys/OZRNV.BShM.IHVH) - עזרנו בשם יהוה
> our help is in the name of Tetragrammaton. [Psalm 124:8](http://biblehub.com/psalms/124-8.htm): *"Our help is in the name of the Lord, who made heaven and earth."*

> Troward on Psalms: *"We get God on our side by putting ourselves on the side of God; i.e., we work from the principle of interior (=divine) power, realizing that the primary action takes place on the interior plane... 'Our help is in the name of the Lord.' How can a name help? 'The name of the Lord 's a strong tower: the righteous runs into it and is safe'. [Proverbs 18:10](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/18-10.htm) The answer is that this name is IHVH.* see [2607](2607), [1101](1101) (Greek).

---

### [tekayrah](/keys/ThPRA) - תקרא
> call. [Proverbs 7:4](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/7-4.htm): *"Say unto wisdom, thou art my sister; and **call** understanding thy kinswoman."* The word or name calls forth, understanding, i.e. Binah, the "kinswoman" through Da'ath or direct knowledge.

---

### [Nathaduriel](/keys/NThDVRIAL) - נתדוריאל
> Lesser assistant angel of ???? Night of Pisces.

---

### [Nephitith Apihm](/keys/NPILTh.APIM) - נפילת אפים
> A slipping or falling down in the act. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.589] calls this phrase prolapus in fariem, and refers to the Zohar. APIM also means "anger".

---

### [Ereck](/keys/ARKf) - ארך
> a City in Ancient Babylonia, founded by Nimrod, and a center for the worship of Ishtar, the Semitic Venus. In [Genesis 10:10](http://biblehub.com/genesis/10-10.htm): *"And the origin of his [Nimrod's] kingdom was Babylon, Erech, Akhar, and Caliah, in the land of Sinar."* [Kaph = 500]

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"I have spoken more than once of the root רך or רק whose effect is to depict the realization, the dissolution of things, literally as well as figuratively."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.282](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/282)]

> Elsewhere this is referred to as a city in the vicinity of Ephraim, the tribe associated with Taurus, ruled by Venus.

---

## Greek

---

### [Saul](/greek?word=saoul) (Gr) - Σαοὺλ
> "Asked of God". 1. The first king of Israel. 2. The Jewish name of the apostle Paul during his early period of persecution of the Christians and before his conversion by "seeing the light", see [901](901) (Greek), [337](337), [781](781) (Greek).
