## 710 - Seven Hundred Ten
> (2x5x71)

---

### [nisather](/keys/NSThR) - נסתר
we are hidden. [Genesis 31:49](https://biblehub.com/genesis/31-49.htm): *"And Mizpah; for he said, The LORD watch between me and thee, when **we are absent** one from another"*

> hidden, occult, mysterious, concealed. see [saykel nesether](/keys/ShKL.NSThR). From the verb סתר [sawther](/keys/SThR), to hide, to veil, to cover, to conceal. Part of the path name of Netzach. The *"brilliant splendor of all the intellectual power which are beheld by the eye of understanding and the thought of faith."* The operation of this forces open the "eye of understanding" -- the awakening of an organ in the human brain. [Nun](/keys/N), the great magical agent is the force which kills and can be brought under control by training the desire nature. [Samekh](/keys/S), The nature of the process whereby it is brought under control; the Holy Guardian Angel or Higher self is actively concerned in the Great Work, a power above the personality level which transforms it. [Tav](/keys/Th), the interpretation of existence in an occultists mind by his work. He in whom the occult intelligence becomes manifest sees nature with new eyes -- a consciousness of the cosmos and of eternal life. [Resh](/keys/R), the regeneration of human personality effected by occult practice. Through control of the secret force, attained by directing the emotions, one makes a new kind of body different from that of the average human being, including a degree of physical mastery almost beyond the power to imagine.

> [Nun](/keys/N): the very beginning of true occult philosophy and practice is vigorous, vital, healthful use of the transforming power of imagination. [Samekh](/keys/S), the work of the artist is a continual testing, and endless experimentation, a long probation. [Tav](/keys/Th), this work requires a thorough understanding of the principle of limitation -- he must be specific. [Resh](/keys/R), the adaptation of life to the expression of beauty demands a child-like mental attitude. see [1060](1060), [148](148). Also נסתר [nesether](/keys/NSThנצחR) to hide oneself; to be hidden, concealed; to be demolished, destroyed. see [148](148).

> "*The doctrines of the grade of Philosophus are six in number, and are derived form the letters of the words נצח, [Netzach](/keys/NTzCh), or Victory... and נסתר, [nesether](/keys/NSThR), meaning occult which designates the special mode of consciousness associated by Qabalist with the seventh circle. There are only six doctrines, although the two words comprise seven letters, because both Netzach and nesether begin the same letter, Nun...*

> - *[Death, Key 13](13) ([Nun](/keys/N)): The dissolution of form is a fundamental tendency of the cosmic process. All things change. All conditions pass away.*
> - *[Temperance, Key 14](14) ([Samekh](/keys/S)): Every human being is under the direct guidance of the One Identity. Every personal action is a special and particular expression of the One Identity's overshadowing activity. Knowledge of this is the secret of the perfect freedom of the truly wise.*
> - *[The World, Key 21](21) ([Tav](/keys/Th)): all form is a limitation of the infinite energy of the Life-power. The primary cause of limitation is the image-making power of the universal mind. Every act of human imagination is really a particular expression, though a personal center, of this image-making power. hence human imagination is, in kind, though not in degree, the same as the imagination that forms the universe...*
> - *[The Sun, Key 19](19) ([Resh](/keys/R)): Human personality is a synthesis of all cosmic processes. Man summarizes all that precedes him, and is the point of departure for the manifestation of a new creature. The natural man is the seed of the spiritual man."*

> [[Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (Weiser), p.203-209](https://archive.org/stream/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985#page/n209)].

---

### [yarak](/keys/IRKf) - ירך
> the thigh, but used as a euphemism for the phallus. In the [Apocalypse (19:16)](https://biblehub.com/revelation/19-16.htm), the Greek noun μηρὸν [meros](/greek?word=mhros) ([418](418)) has the same esoteric meaning. This is linked closely to Qabalistic ideas which are associated with the [7th Path](7) having to do with the activity of the generative and reproductive powers of the One Life. The forces at work in those parts of the human body which are the seat of man's strongest desires are the ones which must be controlled in order to win the victory of which the reward is liberation. The Hebrew lexicon gives: thigh, lion, side, flank; base; leg of a letter. [Kaph = 500] see [230](230).

---

### [bakhan](/keys/BChNf) - בחן
> [Nun = 700]. to test or try; trial. A tried (stone) in [Isaiah 28:16](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/28-16.htm): *"Therefore thus says the Lord God, behold I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone, a tried stone, a precious corner stone, a sure foundation: he that believes shall not make haste."*

> Also: testing, examination; בחן, watch-tower. The higher self watches our tests from within. May also be read בחן, "in grace". see [60](60), [708](708).

---

### [qayam](/keys/QIMf) - קים
> [Mem = 600] Stable, enduring, lasting, living. variant spelling. see [160](160).

---

### [yekaerath](/keys/IQRTh) - יקרת
> costly. [Isaiah 28:16](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/28-16.htm): *"a costly [precious] cornerstone."* From יקר precious, costly, dear; rare, scarce; heavy, weighty; glorious, splendid. the prize of testing. see [310](310).

---

### [maarath](/keys/MORTh) - מערת
> waste. Form מער nakedness, pudenda (to source of "waste") Also מערה [maarah](/keys/MORH) cave, cavern (the hidden source), מערה, a bare, open space (which occult knowledge brings into the open).

---

### [Adam elah](/keys/ADMf.OLH) - אדם עלה
> celestial Adam. The heavenly man is the secret pattern upon which the wisdom of the microcosm is inscribed. [Mem = 600] see [151](151), [156](156), [150](150).

---

### [Aamem](/keys/OMMf) - עמם
> [Mem = 600]. The 52nd name of the Shemhamphorash, short form; associated with the 4th quinance of Aries. Also written OMMIH, Immamiah. Written יועם in [Lamentations 4:1](https://biblehub.com/lamentations/4-1.htm): *"How the gold has lost its luster, the fine gold becomes dull."*

> To bear (a load); to lay upon, to load. [Genesis 44:12](http://biblehub.com/genesis/44-12.htm): "... then they all loaded their donkeys, and returned to the city."

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"עמם... every union in great number; a multitude: action of gathering, covering, hiding, obscuring, heating by piling up."* of its root, he says: *"עם hum. Matter universalized by its faculties: tendency of its pars one toward another; the force which makes them gravitate toward the general mass, which brings them to aggregation, accumulation, conjunction; the force whose unknown cause is expressed, the relations with, toward, among, at. עם every idea of union, junction, conjunction, nearness: a bond, a people, a corporation. The Arabic [word] presents in general the same sense as the Hebrew. As a verb, it is the action of generalizing, of making common. By [Arabic word] is understood a painful condition, a sorrow, an uneasiness, etc."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.418](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/418)]

---

### [veth-sheba](/keys/VATh-ShBA) - ואת־שבא
AND [SHEBA](/keys/ShBA). "Seven" or "An Oath". Son of [Joktan](/keys/IQTN). Grandson of [Eber](/keys/OBR). see [303](303). [Genesis 10:28](https://biblehub.com/genesis/10-28.htm): *"And Obal, and Abimael, **and Sheba**"*

---

### [veth-chamorehem](/keys/VATh-ChMRIHM) - ואת־חמריהם
their donkeys. see also [chamorehem](/keys/ChMRIHM) ([303](303)). [Genesis 34:28](https://biblehub.com/genesis/34-28.htm): *"They took their sheep, and their oxen, and **their asses**, and that which was in the city, and that which was in the field"*

---

### [sheti](/keys/ShThI) - שתי
two. [Genesis 4:19](https://biblehub.com/genesis/4-19.htm): *"And Lamech took unto him **two** wives: the name of the one was Adah, and the name of the other Zillah"*

---

### [qorathi](/keys/QRThI) - קרתי
of my roof. [Genesis 19:8](https://biblehub.com/genesis/19-8.htm): *"Behold now, I have two daughters which have not known man; let me, I pray you, bring them out unto you, and do ye to them as is good in your eyes: only unto these men do nothing; for therefore came they under the shadow **of my roof**."*

---

### [beshacheth](/keys/BShChTh) - בשחת
when destroyed. [Genesis 19:29](https://biblehub.com/genesis/19-29.htm): *"And it came to pass, **when** God **destroyed** the cities of the plain, that God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow, when he overthrew the cities in the which Lot dwelt."*

---

### [maarath](/keys/MORTh) - מערת
the cave. [Genesis 23:9](https://biblehub.com/genesis/23-9.htm): *"That he may give me **the cave** of Machpelah, which he hath, which is in the end of his field; for as much money as it is worth he shall give it me for a possession of a buryingplace amongst you."*

---

### [remithani](/keys/RMIThNI) - רמיתני
have you deceived me. [Genesis 29:25](https://biblehub.com/genesis/29-25.htm): *"And it came to pass, that in the morning, behold, it was Leah: and he said to Laban, What is this thou hast done unto me? did not I serve with thee for Rachel? wherefore then **hast thou beguiled me**?"*

---

### [liptor](/keys/LPThR) - לפתר
to interpret. [Genesis 41:15](https://biblehub.com/genesis/41-15.htm): *"And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and there is none that can interpret it: and I have heard say of thee, that thou canst understand a dream **to interpret** it."*

---

### [mishilshom](/keys/MShLShM) - משלשם
from before. [Exodus 4:10](https://biblehub.com/exodus/4-10.htm): *"And Moses said unto the LORD, O my Lord, I am not eloquent, **neither heretofore**, nor since thou hast spoken unto thy servant: but I am slow of speech, and of a slow tongue."*

---

### [liyarkathayim](/keys/LIRKThIM) - לירכתים
for the far side. [Exodus 26:27 (WEB)](https://biblehub.com/exodus/26-27.htm): *"and five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the side of the tabernacle, **for the far part** westward."*

---

### [baqarachath](/keys/BQRChTh) - בקרחת
on the bald head. [Leviticus 13:42](https://biblehub.com/leviticus/13-42.htm): *"And if there be **in the bald head**, or bald forehead, a white reddish sore; it is a leprosy sprung up in his bald head, or his bald forehead."*

---

### [ouratham](/keys/ORThM) - ערתם
their skins. [Leviticus 16:27](https://biblehub.com/leviticus/16-27.htm): *"And the bullock for the sin offering, and the goat for the sin offering, whose blood was brought in to make atonement in the holy place, shall one carry forth without the camp; and they shall burn in the fire **their skins**, and their flesh, and their dung."*

---

### [beshabatow](/keys/BShBThV) - בשבתו
[every] sabbath. [Numbers 28:10](https://biblehub.com/numbers/28-10.htm): *"This is the burnt offering of every **sabbath**, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering."*

---

### [techasheb](/keys/ThChShB) - תחשב
was regarded as. [Deuteronomy 2:20 (WEB)](https://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/2-20.htm): *"That also **is accounted** a land of Rephaim: Rephaim lived therein before; but the Ammonites call them Zamzummim"*

---

### [mekinereth](/keys/MKNRTh) - מכנרת
from Chinnereth. [Deuteronomy 3:17](https://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/3-17.htm): *"The plain also, and Jordan, and the coast thereof, **from Chinnereth** even unto the sea of the plain, even the salt sea, under Ashdothpisgah eastward."*

---

### [wesadta](/keys/VShDTh) - ושדת
and whitewash. [Deuteronomy 27:2](https://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/27-2.htm): *"And it shall be on the day when ye shall pass over Jordan unto the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee, that thou shalt set thee up great stones, **and plaister** them with plaister:"*

---

### [teshi](/keys/ThShI) - תשי
you are unmindful. [Deuteronomy 32:18](https://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/32-18.htm): *"Of the Rock that begat thee **thou art unmindful**, and hast forgotten God that formed thee."*

---


## Greek/Latin:

---

### [ei huios ei](/greek?word=ei+uios+ei) (Gr) - Εἰ Υἱὸς εἶ
> "if you be the son." [[Matthew 4:3](https://biblehub.com/multi/matthew/4-3.htm)]. part of the temptation of Jesus by the devil: *"Then the tempter approaching him, said: "if you be a son of God, command that these stones become loaves [i.e. bread]."*

---

### [piston](/greek?word=piston) (Gr) - πιστον
> faithful, true, trustworthy.

---

### [pneuma agion](/greek?word=pneuma+agion) (Gr) - Πνεῦμα Ἅγιον
> Holy Spirit, Holy Ghost [[John 20:22](https://biblehub.com/multi/john/20-22.htm)]. In the passage cited, the Greek text uses these words without the article, just as they are written here. see [576](576), [134](134), [660](660).

---

### [Thyras](/greek?word=thuras) (Gr) - θύρας
> Door. [John 10:1,2](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=john+10%3A1-2&version=AKJV;SBLGNT): *"He who comes in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep."*

---

### See Also:

- [71](71)
- [8](8)
- [Bible Wheel: 710](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=710)
