## 715 - Seven Hundred Fifteen
> (5x11x13)

### [nesethrah](/keys/NSThRH) - 
> secret. [hidden; mysterious, occult; mysticism = NSThR] [Also: NSThRVTh mysteries, hidden things] see 710, 788.

### [sheawr ruach](/keys/ShAR.RVCh)
> the residue of the spirit. [Malachi 2:15] "And did he not make one [covenant]? Yet had he the residue of the spirit. And wherefore one? That he might seek a godly seed. Therefore take heed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth. the word translated is 'exuberance of spirit" [ShAR = remnant, in the Hebrew dictionary.]

### [adimath nekawr](/keys/ADMTh.NKR) - 
> a foreign (strange) land. [Psalm 137:4] "How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land?" see 270. "The Lord's song (verse 4) is ShRI-IHVH = 536 = the world of making, Assiah, the material world OVLM HOShIH. "In a strange land" is OL ADMH NKR = 419 = ThITh [Note: the Biblical test gives ADMTh = 445; thus the phrase = 815, which see. That actual value here is given by Case is 420, but the discussion is most pertinent, nevertheless]. The 'strange land' is the field of appearances produced by the serpent power which is pictured in Key 8 as the lion. When we are 'in' that land we are deceived by the appearances of separateness. This NKR strange = RO [evil] which is created [Isaiah 45:7]. It is the - or darkness. Yet ADMH NKR, strange land = 319 = life forevermore ChIIM OL-OVLM" [Paul Case: Troward on Psalms, Psalm 137, p.178] For a continuation of the discussion see note in 270. As = 815, the phrase 'in strange land" = "mighty" as in [Genesis 6:4] "mighty men which were of old, men of renown", referring to the giants. see 815.

### [qitoroth](/keys/QTVRTh) - 
> perfumed, fumigated, censed. Spelled MQThRTh in [Canticles 3:6] "Who is that comes out of the wilderness like pillars of smoke, perfumed with myrrh and frankincense, with all powders of the merchant."

### [tzach ve-awdom](/keys/TzCh.VARVM) - 
> white and ruddy. [Canticles 5:10] "My beloved is white and ruddy, the chiefest among ten thousand." [Mem = 600] see 155, 98.

### [em-gawlah sodo](/keys/AM-GLH.SVDV) - 
> He reveals his secret. [Amos 3:7] "Surely the Lord god will do nothing, but he reveals his secret unto his servants the prophets." [Mem = 600] see 155.

### [Sanahem](/keys/SNHMf) - 
> Lord of triplicity by day for Leo. the guardian support (Samekh) of the seed of change (Nun) constituted (Heh) into stability (Mem). [Mem = 600] see 158.

### [bad-shachath](/keys/BAD-ShChTh) - 
> lowest pit; variant spelling. see 911. According to Godwin, the 4th hell, corresponding to Tiphareth. see 708, 7.