## 739 - Seven Hundred Thirty-Nine
> (prime)

---

### [Sekhel Mughsham](/keys/ShKL.MVGShM) - שכל מוגשם
> Corporeal or Incarnating Intelligence. The [29th Path](29) of [Qoph](/keys/Q). Connects the field of desire (Venus) to that of sensation (Earth). It is the consciousness which shapes bodies and is associated with the "back of head" (Medulla Oblongata). The law of suggestion controls subconscious forces which result in actual cell adaptation of brain cells and body chemistry. This whole process is the work of the Holy Guardian Angel (Ego). The practice of meditation brings changes into the structure of the human body. The main work of this path perfects the special characteristics of each personality while sharing the upward vision of the spirit. Changes in the organism are brought about by efforts to overcome seemingly adverse conditions and are manifest in the "New Creature." see [389](389), [343](343), [180](180), [186](186), [100](100), [414](414), [259](259), [59](59).

---

### [shemesh vu-mawgen](/keys/ShMSh.VMGN) - שמש ומגן
> sun and shield. [Psalm 84:11](http://biblehub.com/psalms/84-11.htm): *"For the Lord God is a sun and shield: the Lord will give grace and glory: no good thing will he uphold from then that walk uprightly."* see [1589](1589), [640](640), [93](93).

---

### [Shimeon bar-jona](/keys/ShMOVN.BR-IVNH) - שמעון בר יונה
> hearing, son of the dove. [John 1:42](http://biblehub.com/john/1-42.htm): *"thou art Simon the son of Jonah: thou shall be called Cephas which is ... the stone."*

> - Simeon is from שמע, [shawma](/keys/ShMO), sound, sonority + שמע report, fame; meaning, sense; hearing capacity.
> - שמע, [shawma](/keys/ShMO), hear, is part of the confession of the unity of God. see [410](410), [466](466), [273](273), [202](202), [71](71). 
> - יונה, [Jonah](/keys/IVNH), "dove", is feminine of masculine יון [Yavan](/keys/IVN)  and יונה [Jonah], who was swallowed by a whale. Note that the dove is a symbol of Venus, ruler of Taurus (intuition, inner hearing, [Key 5](5)) = the tribe of Simeon (Gemini - alchemical fixation, #[446](446)). Inner hearing is part of the body-building process.

---

### [Netzach + Hod + Yesod + Malkuth](/keys/NTzCh.HVD.ISVD.MLKVTh) - נצח הוד יסוד מלכות
> The great lower triangle of the Sephiroth with ISVD at the center: Victory (Venus, desire), Splendor (Mercury, intellect), Foundation (Moon, astral body)

---

### See Also:

- [19](19)
- [10](10)
- [1](1)
