## 740 - Seven Hundred Forty
> (4x5x37)

---

### [Jakin](/keys/IKINf) - יכין
> the pillar of Mercy, the white pillar. On the Tree of life, the pillar of the sephiroth whose numbers [2](2), [4](4), and [7](7) add to [13](13), the number of unity and love. The magic of light or theurgy (God-working) depends on recognition of the One-ness of all, and is based on knowledge that it is essentially love. see [90](90).

---

### [liab ha-ehben](/keys/LB.HABNf) - לב האבן
> the heart of the stone, the stoney heart. [Ezekiel 11:19](http://biblehub.com//.htm) *"And I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit withing you; and I will take the stony heart out of their flesh, and will give them a heart of flesh."* The "stoney heart" is a symbol of the sense of separateness pictured by the tower in Key 16. [Nun = 700] see 90.

---

### [mahn, manna](/keys/MNf) - 
> who? What? a chord. Literally "whatness". The mysterious food of the children of Israel. [Exodus 16:15](http://biblehub.com//.htm) "And when the children of Israel saw it, they said one to another, it is manna: for they know not what it was. And Moses said unto them, this is the bread which the Lord has given you to eat." A root appearing in the word man, moon, month. [Nun = 700] see 90.

---

### [men](/keys/MNf) - מן
> a portion, as in [Psalm 68:22-23](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=psalm%2068%3A22-23&version=ESV;OJB) (22) *"the Lord says 'I will bring you from Bashan; I will bring you from the depths of the sea, (23) That you may plunge your feet in the blood of you foes, while the tongues of you dogs have their portion."*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments on the root מן [men](/keys/MN): *"This root, composed of the sign of exterior and passive action, united by contraction to the root אן, symbol of the sphere of activity and of the circumscriptive extent of being, characterizes all specification, all classifications by exterior forms; all figuration, determinate, definition, qualification.*

> *The Arabic [word] has not followed the same developments as the Hebrew, although they have come from an identical root in the two idioms, as is proved by the usage of this root as designative relation represented by of, from, etc. As noun the Arabic root [Arabic word] designates a thing emanated from another, a gift; as verb, it characterizes the state of that which is benign, beneficial; action of that which is deprived in order to give, to distribute; that which is weakened to reinforce, impoverished to enrich, etc.*

> *מן the kind of things, their exterior figure, mein, image, that is conceived; the idea that is formed, the definition that is given to it; their proper measure, number, quota."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.391]

---

### [Sepher Tav](/keys/SPR.Th) - ספר ת
> Book of Tav. [beginning of text missing] *"And in the Qabalah the planet Saturn is attributed to the letter Tav or ת. Thus we may understand book T to be the record of all time, written upon the flesh of the human body, within and without. Rightly does the Fama warn us that the great treasure ought not to be delivered to the censure of the world."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p.216-218]

---

### [Dionsim](/keys/DIVNSIMf) - דיונסים
> The last 7 letters of the 22-letter name of God [Godwin]. see [180](180).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Kuklos](/greek?word=kuklos) (Gr) - κυκλος
> Cycle. All creation goes through cycles.

---

### [Kteisis](/greek?word=ktisis) (Gr) - κτισις
> Creation. Magic is creation.

---

### [Heh thermoteis](/greek?word=h+thermoThs) (Gr) - η θερμοτης
> Heat, which is vibratory force. Creation controls this vibratory energy.

---

### [Aitheros Melos](/greek?word=aitheros+melos) (Gr) - αιθερος μελος
> Music of the Spheres. The great secret of the practical occultist is the secret of sympathetic vibration, whereby impulses of what might be called a certain pitch induce the activity of cosmic forces far beyond the range of the limited powers of the physical man. The magic circle symbolizes all these ideas.

---

### [ho epi pasi Theos](/greek?word=o+epi+pasi+theos) (Gr) - ο επι πασι θεος
> The god over all. Deity creates using the pairs of opposites; Kether emanates Chokmah (Jachin) and Binah (Boaz). see [284](284) (Greek)

---

### [haima iesou](/greek?word=aima+ihsou) (Gr) - αἷμα Ἰησοῦ
> blood of Jesus. This is the blood of redemption, for "Christ" is created in the blood by receptivity. see [52](52), [688](688) (Greek), [888](888). [1 John 1:7](http://biblehub.com/1_john/1-7.htm); [1620](1620), [2220](2220), [2228](2228).

---

### See Also:

- [74](74)
- [11](11)
- [2](2)