## 741 - Seven Hundred Forty-One
> (3x13x19) Σ[38](38) = 741

---

### [Amen](/keys/AMNf) - אמן
> so be it, to support, be firm or nurture; artificer, artist, master workman. A title of Kether which as a verb signifies: to be firm, to support, to rear up, to nurture, to foster; also faithfulness, truth, credibility (see [91](91)).

---

### [amasmath](/keys/AMShTh) - אמשת
> The 4 letters of the elements, hence comprising a concealed IHVH, Aleph = Air, Mem = Water Shin = Fire and Tav = Earth. see [1](1), [40](40), [300](300), [400](400).

---

### [Leraik](/keys/LRAIKf) - לראיך
> Leake; Goetic demon by day of the 2nd decanate of Leo. The demons's name suggest mis-guided action (Lamed) and use of regenerative solar force (Resh) in erratic activities (Aleph) resulting in a false sense of personal will (Yod) in an endless quest to manifest that will (Kaph). The 2nd decanate of Leo is ruled by Jupiter and has the qualities: kindly, tolerant, urbane. The influence of this demon suggest conscious imbalance. In the Tarot minor arcana this decanate corresponds to the 6 of Wands, which is the operation of Tiphareth, sphere of the Sun or higher self, in Atziluth, the world of archetypes. When negatively aspected, as here, it can indicate loss though love affairs or by the opposite sex; waste in pleasure and trouble through pride of riches or through intolerance based on success. The remedy to this is correct understanding of the true source of personal egoic feelings.

---

### [eth-Shem](/keys/ATh-ShM) - את־שם
SHEM. One of Noah's sons. see [340](340). [Genesis 5:32](https://biblehub.com/genesis/5-32.htm): *"And Noah was five hundred years old: and Noah begat **Shem**, Ham, and Japheth."*

---

### [wenaarothiha](/keys/VNORThIH) - ונערתיה
and her servant girls. [Genesis 24:61](https://biblehub.com/genesis/24-61.htm): *"And Rebekah arose, **and her damsels**, and they rode upon the camels, and followed the man: and the servant took Rebekah, and went his way"*

---

### [watir'ayina](/keys/VThROINH) - ותרעינה
and they fed. [Genesis 41:2](https://biblehub.com/genesis/41-2.htm): *"And, behold, there came up out of the river seven well favoured kine and fatfleshed; **and they fed** in a meadow."*

---

### [mashoth](/keys/MShATh) - משאת
portions. [Genesis 43:34](https://biblehub.com/genesis/43-34.htm): *"And he took and sent **messes** unto them from before him: but Benjamin's mess was five times so much as any of theirs. And they drank, and were merry with him."*

---

### [wahashikothi](/keys/VHShKThI) - והשכתי
thus will I rid. [Numbers 17:5](https://biblehub.com/numbers/17-5.htm): *"And it shall come to pass, that the man's rod, whom I shall choose, shall blossom: **and I will make to cease** from me the murmurings of the children of Israel, whereby they murmur against you."*

---

### [liqrathi](/keys/LQRAThI) - לקראתי
against me. [Numbers 22:34](https://biblehub.com/numbers/22-34.htm): *"And Balaam said unto the angel of the LORD, I have sinned; for I knew not that thou stoodest in the way **against me**: now therefore, if it displease thee, I will get me back again."*

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
- [Bible Wheel: 741](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=741)
