## 747 - Seven Hundred Forty-Seven
> (9x83)

---

### [Ben Adam](/keys/BNf.ADM) - בן אדם
> son of man. [Psalm 8:4](http://biblehub.com/psalms/8-4.htm): *"What is man that you are mindful of him, the son of man that you care for him?"* Refers to man as the means whereby the divine grace becomes manifest through correct understanding of the desire nature. [Nun = 700] see [97](97), [657](657), [1307](1307), [2198](2198) (Greek).

---

### [amon](/keys/AMVNf) - אמון
> artificer, master-workman, architect, designer. Corresponds to the number 7 and the heptagram (the inner planetary centers) as symbol of skill developed through trial and error.

> Also AMVN aemon. faithfulness. Variant spelling of AMN. [Nun = 700] see [187](187).

> AMVN is also the day demon of the 1st decanate of Gemini, ruled by Mercury. It suggest self-conscious imbalance of spiritual energy (Aleph) resulting in mental inertia (Mem), psychic receptivity (Vav) and cycles of reproductive error (Nun). In the Tarot minor arcana it corresponds to the 8 of Swords, which is the operation of Hod, sphere of Mercury in Yetzirah, the formative world. It can indicate as here, wasted force, ill-directed action, crises in affairs, malice; ill-natured, too much concern with personalities, pettiness and over-carefulness in details.

---

### [Ophanim](/keys/AVPNIMf) - אופנים
> Wheels. Choir of angels of Chokmah. see [187](187)

---

### [moshe aish ha-Elohim](/keys/MShH.AISh.HALHIM) - משה איש האלהים
> Moses, man of God, or Moses, man of the Elohim. [Deuteronomy 33:1](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/33-1.htm): *"And this is the blessing, wherewith Moses the Man of God blessed the children of Israel before his death."* Moses is linked with the name IHVH and with inner tranquillity. It is water (Mem), spirit (Shin) and vision (Heh). The children of Israel are those who rule as God. see [345](345), [541](541).

> [Zohar: Prologue 6B] says this name implies that he was *"The husband, as it were of the divine glory, leading it where so he would on earth. A privilege no other man has ever employed."* see [311](311).

---

### [eth-shemo](/keys/ATh-ShMV) - את־שמו
HIS NAME. [Genesis 4:25](https://biblehub.com/genesis/4-25.htm): *"And Adam knew his wife again; and she bare a son, and called **his name** Seth: For God, said she, hath appointed me another seed instead of Abel, whom Cain slew."*

---

### See Also:

- [18](18)
- [9](9)
- [Bible Wheel: 747](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=747)
