## 750 - Seven Hundred Fifty
> (2x3x5x5x5)

---

### [mahdone](/keys/MDVNf) - מדון
> contest, quarrel, exertion; contraction; extension, length, height. All outer strife is the play of the light and darkness of God. All semblance of effort and exertion is performed by the one actor. [Psalm 80:6](http://biblehub.com/psalms/80-6.htm): *"Thou makes us a strife unto our neighbors: and our enemies laugh among themselves."* see [100](100).

---

### [min](/keys/MINf) - מין
> species, kind.

---

### [lishekawth](/keys/LShKTh) - לשכת
> chambers, cells; compartments; rooms connected with sanctuary. [2 Kings 23:11](http://biblehub.com/2_kings/23-11.htm): *"And he took away the horse that the kings of Judah had given to the sun, at the entering in of the house of the Lord, by the chambers of Nathan Melech the chamberlain, which was in the suburbs, and burned the chariots of the sun with fire." [Ezekiel 40:44] "And without the inner gate were the chambers of the singers in the inner court, which was at the side of the north gate; and their prospect was toward the south: one at the side of the east gate having the prospect toward the north."*

---

### [ophereth](/keys/OPRTh) - עפרת
> lead. short spelling. The metal of Saturn, which is lifted up by alchemical practce, or transmuted into Gold Tiphareth, via the energy of Nun. see [756](756), [400](400), [713](713), [406](406), [806](806), [746](746).

> The Aesch Mezareph [VI, pp.33-35] says: *"Ophereth, in the doctrine of natural things is referred to wisdom [Chokmah], for a great treasure of wisdom lies hid here. And hither is referred the quotation [Proverbs 3:19](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/3-19.htm): 'The Lord in wisdom has founded the earth; I say, the earth', concerning which Job speaks [28:16](http://biblehub.com/job/28-16.htm), 'which has dust of gold'. Where, take notice of the word ophereth, i.e. lead. This lead, by a mystical name is call chol [KL, the all, #[50](50)], because therein lies the system of the whole universe. For its figure [circle with cross on top] has a below circle, the sign of universal perfection, and over the circle is a cross formed of four Daleths, whose angels meet in one point; so you may know, that all quaternity lies here, and the quaternious of quaternity: whether you refer to the elements, or cortices, or letters or worlds. And in this lead of the wise men four elements lie hid, i.e. Fire, or the Sulphur of the philosophers; Air, the separator of the waters; the dry water; and the earth of the wonderful salt. There are also hid in it the four cortices, described in [Ezekiel 1:4](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/1-4.htm), for in the preparation of it there will occur to thee the whirlwind, a great cloud, and a fire enfolding itself, and at length the desire splendor [a brightness as the color of amber] breaks for. Also the natural sephirah of the Tetragrammaton, and the metal thereof, occurs to thee here. And you will naturally travel through four worlds in the very labor, when after the faction and formation, laborious enough, thee will appear the wonderful creation: after which thou shall have the emanation of the desired natural light. And note, that the word [KL] chol, whose number is 50, multiplied by 15, according to the number of the sacred characteristic name in the sephirah of wisdom, will produce the number of ophereth, i.e. [750](750)..."*

> *Chokmah, in the metallic doctrine, is the sephirah of lead, or primordial salt, in which the lead of the wise men lies hid. But how is so high a place attributed to lead which is so ignoble a metal, and of which there is so seldom mention made in the scripture? But here lies wisdom! Its several degrees are kept very secret; hence there is very little mention made of it. But yet here will not be wanting examples of the particular sephiroth. For may not that which in ([Zechariah 5:7](http://biblehub.com/zechariah/5-7.htm)) is called a lifted up talent of Lead, and brought from the deep, represent the grade of Kether? And that which in the same chapter, verse 8, is spoken concerning the stone of lead ("And he cast the weight of the lead upon the mouth of the Ephah) it sets before itself the letter Yod, which is in Chokmah. Then ([Ezekiel 27:12](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/27-12.htm)), lead is referred to the place of the congregation of which type is Binah, and ([Amos 7:7](http://biblehub.com//.htm)). Anak (ANK, #[71](71)), a leaden plummet, denotes the thread of Chesed. for Anak, [text ends*]

---

### [shalleketh](/keys/ShLKTh) - שלכת
> a casting off of leaves; name of one of the gates of the temple, in [1 Chronicles 26:16](http://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/26-16.htm): *"To Shuppim and Hosah the lot came forth westward, with the gate Shalle-cheth, which is made in the road that goes up, watch opposite watch."*

---

### [Caphtorim](/keys/VATh-KPThRIM) - ואת־כפתרים
Caphtorim, granson of [Ham](/keys/ChM). see [750](750). [Genesis 10:14](https://biblehub.com/genesis/10-14.htm): *"And Pathrusim, and Casluhim, (out of whom came Philistim,) **and Caphtorim**."*

---

### See Also:

- [75](75)
- [12](12)
- [3](3)
- [Bible Wheel: 750](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=750)

