## 758 - Seven Hundred Fifty-Eight
> (2x379)

---

### [nechosheth](/keys/NChShTh) - נחשת
> serpents (feminine); filthiness, harlotry; copper, brass (vessels). In the Rosicrucian allegory, refers to the memorial table, cast of Brass, which brother N.N. discovered while making repairs in his building.

> *"Attached to his table was a nail, which when it was pulled out, took with it a stone, leaving an opening which exposed the hidden door (see 100). The Fama uses the noun 'Brass' as does the English translation of the Old Testament, to indicate, not the mixture of copper and zinc, nor any other alloy, but, as the original Hebrew shows, the metal copper, which the alchemist call Venus...we may compare this memorial table to the emerald table of Hermes, for as Brass or copper is the metal of Venus, so is the Emerald the precious stone of the same planet."* [True and Invisible, page 175]. Venus is connected with desire and creative imagery. Desire is the open door to the higher life, but un-transmuted, it can bring the filthiness of lower imagery.

> Note that נחש are the letters for "[serpent](/keys/NChSh)", and שת spells [6](6) ([Sheth](/keys/ShTh)), the number of [Tiphareth](/keys/ThPARTh), to which Vav, the "nail" is attributed. It also spells [Seth](/keys/ShTh), whose name means: replacement, or compensation. This is the reward of those who master the serpent-power; they become united with the son in the Sephirah call Beauty. see [358](358), [700](700), [6](6), [12](12), [1171](1171), [1266](1266). *"That is, the word [Nekosheth](/keys/NChShTh) is a formula for the vault."* [True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (WeiserBooks), p. 114].

> *"Among the planets [Nogah](/keys/NVGH), Venus corresponds to it. A necessary instrument to promote the metallic splendor. Yet it has more the part of the male [red] than female [white] for do not deceive thyself, to believe a white splendor it promised to thee, as the word Nogah infers. But Hod ought to receive a Geburic influence, and gives it also. O how great is thy mystery. Learn therefore to lift the serpent up on high, which is called Nechushtan ([2 Kings 18:4](http://biblehub.com/2_kings/18-4.htm)) if thou wouldst cure infirm natures after the example of Moses."* [Aesch Mezareph V, p.32?, unsure of orgin of quote]

---

### [mashchith](/keys/MShChITh) - משחית
> The Destroyer, corruption. [Jeremiah 5:26](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/5-26.htm): *"For among my people are found wicked man: they lay wait, as he that sets snares; they set a trap, they catch men."*

> Also: destruction, perdition [IRQ:666] "And if thou says wrath and fervor, it is well, since it is written, [Deuteronomy 9:19](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/9-19.htm) 'Since I have feared because of wrath and fervor'. For these are the black and the red smoke. but when is added MShChITh perdition? [667] Because it is written [Genesis 13:10](http://biblehub.com/genesis/13-10.htm): "Before that IHVH destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah." But the word [Shachith](/keys/ShChTh) denoted perdition brought about by burning kindled fire." see [854](854).

> Also in [Exodus 12:23](http://biblehub.com/exodus/12-23.htm): *"When the Lord goes through the land to strike down the Egyptians, he will see the blood on the top and on the sides of the door frame and will pass over the doorway, and he will not permit the destroyer to enter your house and strike you down."*

---

### See Also:

- [20](20)
- [2](2)
