## 775 - Seven Hundred Seventy-Five
> (5x5x31)

### [tishah](/keys/ThShOH) - תשעה
> the number "nine". in [Leviticus 23:32](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/23-32.htm): *"it is a Sabbath of rest for you, and you must deny yourselves. From the evening of the ninth day of the month until the following evening you are to observe your Sabbath."* Recall that the number nine represents the end, or completion of a cycle, as in [Key 9, The Hermit](9). see [770](770) for masculine form of this word.

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"תשע: nine. The root שע, which signifies literally, lime, cement, draws with it all ideas of cementation, consolidation, restoration, conservations, etc. The verb שוע, which comes form it, expresses the action of cementing, plastering, closing carefully. Therefore the name of this number, being visibly composed of this root שע, governed by this sign of reciprocity Tav, should be understood as cementation, as mutual consolidation. It maintains with number three, a very intimate relation, containing like it, ideas of preservation and salvation."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.154]

> 2. Paul Case writes: *"As last of the numerical symbols, 9 represents the following ideas: completion, attainment, fulfillment, the goal of endeavor, the end of a cycle of activity. Yet, because 8 indicates rhythm as part of the creative process, completion is not absolute cessation. The end of one cycle is the beginning of another. This fact is the basis of all practical occultism. Nobody ever comes to the end of his tether. Nobody ever reaches a point where nothing more remains to be hoped for, where nothing remains to be accomplished. In Qabalah, therefore, 9 is called basis or foundation, and corresponds to the mode of consciousness named Pure of Clear Intelligence, because the completion of any process is the pure, clear unadulterated expression of the intention or idea which initiated that process."* [The Tarot, pp.13-14]