 ## 777 - Seven Hundred Seventy-Seven
> (3x7x37)

---

### [birqi'a ha-shamaim](/keys/BRQIO.HShMIM) - ברקיע השמים
> in the firmament of the heavens. [Genesis 1:14](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-14.htm) The phrase which precedes this is "Let thee be luminaries", and its number is [666](666). (The number 666 is gained by using a short spelling for the Hebrew word for luminaries). see [666](666).

> "The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not." [John 1:5](http://biblehub.com/john/1-5.htm)

---

### [Olahm ha-Qlippoth](/keys/OVLM.HQLIPVTh) - עולם הקליפות
> The World of Shells or Demons. Another name for Assiah, the material world or the world of action. It is the world of matter, made up of the grosser elements of the other three worlds. (Feminine singular קליפה, [Qlipah](/keys/QLIPH), "peeling, scaling.") In it also is the abode of the evil spirits, called shells by the Qabalah. see [626](626), [536](536), [385](385).

---

### [Achath Ruach Elohim Chayyim](/keys/AChTh.RVCh.ALHIM.ChIIM) - אחת רוח אלהים חיים
> One is the Spirit of the Living God.

---

### [Methusael](/keys/MThVShAL) - מתושאל
> Methusael, father of Lamech, Old Testament name. [Genesis 4:18](http://biblehub.com/genesis/4-18.htm) *"To Enoch was born Irad, and Irad was the father of Mehutael was the father of Methushael, and Methushael was the father of Lamech."* One of the ?antedisivian" patriarchs in the Cannite list. The name is Babylonian, meaning "man of God".

> Fabre D'Olivet translates this name "death's fathomless pit", or "abyss of death" (i.e. שאל sheol).

---

### [be-tzion har-qawdeshey](/keys/BTzIVN.HR-QDShI) - בציון הר־קדשי
> "in Zion my holy mountain". [Joel 3:17](http://biblehub.com/joel/3-17.htm) *"So shall ye know that I am the Lord your God dwelling in Zion, my holy mountain: then shall Jerusalem be holy, and there shall be no strangers pass through her anymore."*

> On the physical plane "Zion" corresponds to the area of the pineal gland in the brain -- it is the adytum or holy place. Jerusalem means "abode of peace", and peace comes when the truth of the recognition of the unity of God in man is established. see [2117](2117) (Greek).

---

## Greek

---

### [ta enonta](/greek?word=ta+enonta) (Gr) - τὰ ἐνόντα
> "[of] the things which are within" [Luke 11:41](http://biblehub.com/luke/11-41.htm) *"But give in alms the things within, and behold, all things are pure to you."*

---

### [heh prothesis heh megaleh](/greek?word=h+prothesis+h+megalh) (Gr) - η προθεσις η μεγαλη
> the great purpose. Mentioned in [Romans 8:28](http://biblehub.com/romans/8-28.htm) *"And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God-to those being invited according to a purpose."*

---

### [hoi kletoi basileia](/greek?word=oi+klhtoi+basileia) (Gr) - οι κλητοι βασιλεια
> Those called to the kingdom. see [259](259) (Greek).

---

### [helios basileias](/greek?word=hlios+basileias) (Gr) - ηλιος βασιλειας
> sun of the kingdom.

---

### See Also:

- [21](21)
- [3](3)