## 786 - Seven Hundred Eighty-Six
> (2x3x131)

---

### [esh min ha-shamaim](/keys/ASh.MN.HShMIM) - אש מן השמים
> Fire from heaven. [2 Kings 1:10](http://biblehub.com/2_kings/1-10.htm). An ancient title of the letter Peh ([Key 16](16)). Refers to lightning. The holy influence is of the same nature as lightning -- the electrical constitution of matter. see [78](78), [899](899), [395](395), [503](503).

---

### [mammon](/keys/MMVNf) - ממון
> wealth, value; money; fines; penalties. The word comes form the root aman, 'to trust' (ma'mon, Aramaic "that which is made secure or deposited") [Nun = 700] see [136](136).

---

### [Yesod Olam](/keys/ISVD.OVLMf) - יסוד עולם
> Eternal Foundation of the World, a title of Yesod. [Mem = 600].

---

### [peshut](/keys/PShVTh) - פשות
> smooth. the smooth point is a name of Kether, the spiritual sun and origin of the "fire of heaven". see [559](559).

---

### [shelomith](/keys/ShLVMITh) - שלומית
> peaceableness (variant spelling). To be in harmony with the celestial fire brings peaceableness. see [780](780).

---

### [aeron etzei shitim](/keys/ARVN.OTzI.ShTIM) - ארון עצי שטים
> an ark of Acacia wood. [Exodus 25:10](http://biblehub.com/exodus/25-10.htm): *"And they shall make an ark of Acacia wood; two cubits and a half its length, and a cubit and a half its breath, and a cubit and a half its height."* The ark housed the tablets of the law revealed to Moses by God. see [257](257), [160](160), [314](314).

---

### [Phurk](/keys/PVRKf) - פורך
> Furcas; goetic demon by night of the 2nd decanate of Leo. A fallen angel; a renowned president or duke of hell: "here he devotes his time to teaching rhetoric, logic and mathematics. He can render people invisible; he also knows how to restor lost property." Has 29 legions of demons to do his bidding, according to De Planky in Dectionaire Inferom. [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.???] Furcas is connected with the 6 of Wands, or the central ego in the world of archetypes, and thus with pride and dissention, in principle. [Kaph = 500] see [306](306).

---

### [eth ha-raqia](/keys/ATh.HRQIO) - את הרקיע
> the firmament. the expanse. [Genesis 1:7](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-7.htm): *"So God made the expanse and separtated the water under the expanse from the water above it. And it was so."* It could be that את here means "essence", thus linking it with the fiery water of Mezla, manifest as lightning. The essence of the firmament can be seen as mind working on the archetypal plane or Atziluth of the Qabalist. see [410](410). Where the prefix Lamed is used instead of Heh and without את. see [1821](1821) (Greek), [380](380), [1451](1451) (Greek).

> According to Fabre D'Olivet, it is translated: *"את הרקיע, thatselfsameness-of-the-rarefying... it was doubtless seen in the first verse of the chapter, that I gave according to the occasion, a particular meaning to the designative preposition, את [eth](/keys/ATh) having rendered את השמים [eth ha-shamaim](/keys/ATh.HShMIM) word for word by the self-sameness (objectivity) of the heavens; it is true... that this preposition expresses often more than a simple designative inflection, and that it characterizes, especially when it is followed by the determinative article Heh, as in the instance the substance itself, the ipseity, the objectivity, the self-sameness of the thing which it designates."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp. 37-38](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/36)]

> F.J. Mayers adds: *"The Hebrew word is 'rakia'. The root of the word is רק '[rak](/keys/RQ)' which means anything which expands, extends, dilates, etc. In Arabic, the root denotes something volatile, which spreads out like the scent of a flower, or an odor. the meaning of this ancient root is still preserved in our expression: 'to reek of', and in the Scotch word 'reek', 'smoke'. 'Rak' is allied to the word רוח '[Rauch](/keys/RVCh)' -- spirit or breath, but is rather harder and more materialistic. (It has the heard 'k' instead of the soft Ch). The word 'rakia' denotes something 'stretching out', an 'expanse'. It is spiritual in it nature (and therefore in verse 8 is called 'heaven'), but it linked both with the spiritual and the material. It is said to be in the midst of the waters and to 'divide the waters from the waters'. We can, perhaps, best arrive at some understanding of the real nature and purpose of this 'firmament' if we remember that the constitution of 'man' is in close correspondence with the constitution of the cosmos, and in ourselves we may find the clue we need... now, it there anything within ourselves -- any portion of our being, which seems, to correspond with what is told us of the firmament? Is there anything which holds a midway position between our physical being and our spiritual being -- which is a link between the two, and which is acted upon and has activities in both?' The writer believes that there is just such a plane of being in that fixed, permanent center of our human consciousness which we call the 'Ego', the 'I', which lives, feels, thinks and initiates all our activities."* [The Unknown God, pp.35-36]

> Gaskel suggests that the firmament is a symbol of the higher mental plane as the firm foundation of creation, and as a central plane of consciousness dividing the upper planes of reality from the lower planes of illusion... and the supreme now establishes the higher mental plane which shall be a plane of consciousness dividing the Reality from the Mayavic. That is, the mental plane shall divide the buddhic plane (waters above) of the higher emotions, from the astral plance (waters below) of the desires. And to the higher nature the name of Heaven is given.

> [beginning of text missing] because all the upper waters are collected in it, and it then transmits them to these hayyoth, and so they draw from there. It is written: *'A garden shut up is my sister, by bride, a spring shut up, a fountain sealed'* ([Song of Solomon 4:12](http://biblehub.com/songs/4-12.htm)). This firmament is called a 'garden shut up', because the whole is enclosed and embraced in it. It is called 'a spring shut up', because the supernal stream as it courses enters it but cannot issue, the water being congealed. For the north wind blows on them, and so they become congealed and cannot issue, being made into ice; nor would they ever issue were it not for a wind from the south which breaks up the ice. The appearance is this highest firmament is like that of the ice which collects all the waters. Similarly it collects waters and separates the upper from the lower waters." (pp.122-123).

---

### See Also:

- [21](21)
- [3](3)