## 800 - Eight Hundred
> (25x32)

---

### [Final Peh](/keys/Pf) - ף
> Mouth (as an organ of speech). Value of the letter Peh is its final form. The letter of Mars pictured in Key 16 as the lighting-struck tower. Connects Netzach (Venus) and Hod (Mercury) as the path of the Exciting Intelligence on the Tree of Life. In the human body designates the Mars center or alchemical "metal", which stimulates the reproductive organs. In the Yoga doctrine, this center, called by the Hindus Svadistthana chakra, is the seat of the apas tattva, the tattva of Water. see [80](80), [85](85), [899](899).

---

### [qesheth](/keys/QShTh) - קשת
> archer, bowman; bow, rainbow, penis (as a Mishnaic or Talmudic word), arc, arch, violin bow. Hebrew for Sagittarius. Symbolizes the differentiation of the vibratory activity of light into color, when the "water" of consciousness has been mingled with the "fire" of cosmic Life-breath. The colors of the rainbow are those of the seven planetary centers brought into harmonious activity by the occult use of color and sound, to bring opposites to bear on one another. The correlate with the "bow of the solar spectrum-the white light of the sun divided in to 7 primary colors (connects with the Greek myth of Iris, the feminine messenger of the Gods). Thus the perfect coordination of the 7 principles of human personality is the balanced activity of the interior stars.

> Gaskell says that the rainbow is a *"symbol of the higher mental plane which forms a bridge, as it were, between the higher and lower natures (heaven and earth). The rainbow is a peculiarly appropriate symbol of the 'bride of heaven', caused as it is by the reflection of sun (the self) in the water-drops (truth) forth pouring from the cloud (Buddhi) to the earth (lower? nature). When the lower nature full reflect the higher, then the 'bridge' may be transverse the victorious Egos returning to their home above."* [Dictionary of All Scriptures and Myths, pp.609-610]

> According to Jacob Boehme: *"The rainbow is the sign and token of this covenant, that man has created out of three principles into an image, and that he should live in all three. For the rainbow has the color of all the three principles; viz. the color of the first principle is red and darkish brown, which betokens the dark and fire world, that is the kingdom of God's anger. The color of the second principle is white and yellow, signifying a type of the holy world of God, love. The third principles color is green and blue; blue form the chaos and green form the water or salt-petre... This bow is a figure of the last judgement showing how the inward perpetual world will again manifest itself and swallow up the outward world of four elements."* [Mysterium Magnum, p.207]

---

### [shoresh](/keys/ShRSh) - שרש
> a root (of a plant), source, origin; stock, race, genus. bottom, lowest part; stem of a word. Indicates that whatever significance there may be in the word קשת "the bow" will lead to a better understanding of that which is the root or fundamental reality from which spring all forms of growth and development. The rootless root concentrates the Limitless light, and so sets up the double activity of that restrictive, boundarysetting phase of the Life-power symbolized by Saturn. see [60](60), [850](850), [37](37).

---

### [Tayth](/keys/ThTh) - תת
> Profuse. A title of Kether--The Profuse Giver, [Tayth Zal](/keys/ThTh.ZL). see [837](837).

---

### [soke](/keys/ShKf) - שך
> abode, dwelling, booth, pavilion. The first two letters of שכל, [saykel](/keys/ShKL), intelligence. [Kaph = 500] see [320](320), 350. Also: thorn. see [320](320).

---

### [ram](/keys/RMf) - רם
> High One, lofty, elevated, exalted. Applied to the spirit of brother C.R. at the beginning of the story. [Mem = 600] see [240](240), [320](320). [Job 32:2](http://biblehub.com/job/32-2.htm): *"But Elihu son of Barakel the Buzite, of the family of Ram became very angry with Job for justifying himself rather than God."*

---

### [la-rawqiya shamaim](/keys/LRQIO.ShMIM) - לרקיע שמים
> firmament of heaven. [Genesis 1:8](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-8.htm): *"And Elohim called the firmament heaven."* (When Lamed is used as a preposition, it means: to, into, at, near; with reference to, in regard to; belonging to, of; according to, after, by; towards, against, during.) Heaven is literally "what is heaved up" and means "names" - the creative name or word (IHVH). It is composed of the union of fire with the waters, or Chokmah and Binah. God is here translated Elohim, the creative powers of strength. see [90](90), [390](390).

---

### [aferoth zawhab lo](/keys/OPRTh.ZHB.LV) - עפרת זהב לו
> It has dust of gold [Job 28:6](http://biblehub.com/job/28-6.htm). The opening verses where this is found, are invested with great occult significance. One of the clues to the hidden meaning is the word ארץ, [Eretz](/keys/ARTz), Earth.

> ארץ ממנה יצא להם, [Eretz mimenah yetzeh-lehem](/keys/ARTz.MMNH.ITzA-LHM). [Job 28:5](http://biblehub.com/job/28-5.htm): *"earth, out of it cometh bread..."* is the part alluded to. see [291](291), [78](78), [14](14).

---

### [awreloth lebabikem](/keys/ORLVTh.LBBKM) - ערלות לבבכם
> foreskins of your heart. [Jeremiah 4:4](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/4-4.htm) "Circumcise yourself with IHVH, and take away the foreskins of your heart." This should explain the phallic coloring of Qesheth.

---

### [qen](/keys/QN) - קן
> cell, chamber, room, nest. Nun=700. see [150](150).

> - קני, in [Job 29:18](http://biblehub.com/job/29-18.htm): *"I thought, 'I will die in my own [nest](/keys/QNI), my day as numerous as the grains of sand."*
> - Plural קנים in [Genesis 6:14](http://biblehub.com/genesis/6-14.htm): *"So make yourself an ark of Cypress wood; make [rooms](/keys/QNIM) in it and coat it with pitch inside and out."* 

---

## Greek/Latin

---

### [he dynamis Megaleh](/greek?word=h+dunamis+megalh) (Gr) - ἡ δύναμις Μεγάλη
> The great power. [Acts 8:10](http://biblehub.com/acts/8-10.htm): *"To whom they all gave-heed from the least to the greatest, saying, this man is the great power of god."* The name given Simon Magus by the Samaritans. His name (Simon) means "hearing". Furthermore, he was converted, and though he fell into an error, for which he was rebuked by Peter.

> [Acts 8:20](http://biblehub.com/acts/8-20.htm): *"But Peter said to him, 'may thy silver go to destruction with thee, because thou has thought to buy the gift of God with money; [8:21](http://biblehub.com/acts/8-21.htm) for I see that thou art in the gall of bitterness, and in the bond of wickedness."* He accepted the rebuke, and asked for Peter's prayers. Later traditions which make out that Simon Magus was an opponent of Christians, have no scriptural basis. see [466](466), [1480](1480).

---

### [Kyrios](/greek?word=kurios) (Gr) - κύριος
> Lord. One of the titles of Jesus. Used throughout the Septuagint translation of the Old Testament for יהוה. In the New Testament [Mark 13:35](http://biblehub.com/mark/13-35.htm) and elsewhere. it is also frequently used in the same way. see [644](644), [1768](1768), [656](656), [1480](1480), [1408](1408), [1844](1844).

---

### [pistis](/greek?word=pistis) (Gr) - πίστις
> Faith; expectant confidence, trust in others, belief; persuasion of a thing; assurance, good faith, faithfulness, honesty. Also: credit, trust; that which gives trust or confidence, an assurance, pledge of good faith, warrant. A means of persuasion, an argument, proof. Not to be confused with belief or creeds, or even with belief in the sincerity and dependability of a teacher. Faith, as St. Paul says, is the substance of things hoped for. It is expectant confidence, founded on repeated experimental verifications of the basic principles of knowledge and wisdom. In [Ephesians 4:5](http://biblehub.com/interlinear/ephesians/4-5.htm): *"One Lord, one faith, one baptism."*, Κύριος and πίστις are brought into immediate juxtaposition. see [1304](1304), [1581](1581), [1628](1628).

---

### See Also:

- [8](8)