## 807 - Eight Hundred Seven
> (3x269)

### [raum](/keys/RAVMf) - ראום
> Raum; Goetic demon by night of the 1st decanate of Taurus. Davidson says that before he fell, Raum was one of the Order of Thrones. *"In hell he is a great earl and manifest in the from of a crow. His mission or office is to destroy cities and subvert the dignities of men. He commands 30 legions of infernal spirits... Raum also answers to the name of Haborym and is pictured.. with three heads-man, cat, viper."* [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.242]

> The 1st decanate of Taurus is ruled by Venus and has the qualities: devoted, artistic, sympathetic. The influence of the demon suggest subconscious imbalance, resulting in negative qualities of psychism, lack of sympathy and materialism. This decanate is also attributed to the 5 of Pentacles in the Tarot minor arcana, which represents the force of Geburah, sphere of Mars or divine volition, in Assiah, the material world. When, misunderstood and feared, because of the demon's influence, the Mars force can have negative degenerative manifestations as physical disease and death. Other effect are toil unrewarded; loss of money; poverty and trouble through lack of imagination and foresight. The counterbalance to this is to welcome change, desire perpetual and progressive transformations and become receptive to inner vision and hearing. [Mem = 600] see [247](247).

### [shemen zayith](/keys/ShMN.ZITh) - שמן זית
> olive oil. [Exodus 27:20](http://biblehub.com/exodus/27-20.htm): *"and you shall command the children of Israel, that they bring you pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause the lamp to burn always."* see [390](390).

### [Arthur](/keys/ARThVR) - ארתור
> Arthur is a common masculine given name. Its etymology is disputed, but its popularity derives from its being the name of the legendary hero [King Arthur](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/King_Arthur). {[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthur)}

### [gaydeph](/keys/GDPf) - גדף
> to revile, blaspheme. Misuse of the powers of the Moon. [Peh = 800]. see [87](87).

### [zawqawn](/keys/ZQNf) - זקן
> the beard; lingam. The influence (Mezla) which descends from the first Sephirah through all the others. It is called "the beard of truth" in S.D. II:1. [Also זקן an old man; elder; scholar; grandfather]. [Nun = 700]. see [157](157).

### [Elohey ha-olawmim](/keys/ALHI.HOVLMIMf) - אלהי העולמים
> The Living God of the ages. עולם [olahm](/keys/OVLM) has among its meanings "something-hidden, time immemorial, eternity". [Mem = 600]. see [247](247), [146](146).

### [zerem](/keys/ZRMf) - זרם
> Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.29] gives: "to overwhelm, a flood", and cites [Psalm 77:17](): *"The clouds poured down [זרמו, they-poured-down, Interlinar Bible] water, the sikes resounded with thunder, your arrows flashed back and forth."* [Mem = 600]. see [247](247).

### See Also:

- [87](87)
- [15](15)
- [6](6)