## 813 - Eight Hundred Thirteen
> (3x271)

---

### [Ararita](/keys/ARARIThA) - אראריתא
> a name of God; acronym for *Achad Rosh Achdotho Rosh Ichudo Temurahzo Achad,* "one is His Beginning, one is His individuality, His permutation is one."

---

### [hachoshek ubyin haowr byin elohim vibdal](/keys/HChShK.VBIN.HAVR.BIN.ALHIM.VIBDL) - החשך ובין האור בין אלהים ויבדל
> The Elohim seperated the light from the darkness.

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: VIBDL, and he made a division... the verb BDVL springs from the two contracted roots BD-DL. By the first BD, should be understood every idea of individuality, of isolation, of solitary existence: by the second BL, every kind of division, of opening, of disjunction. So that the verb here alluded to, signifies literally the act of particularizing, of isolating one from another, of making solution of things, distinguishing them, separating them, etc. Moses employs it here according to the intensive form to give it more force." [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.34]

> The Zohar [I:160] says: "And God divided: he put away strife, so that the whole was in perfect order" (p.70); and in [32A, p.121] "As for the words, 'And God divided the light from the darkness', this means that he prevented dissention between them.' Said Rabbi Isaac: 'Up to this point the male principle was represented by light and the female by darkness; subsequently they were joined together and made one'... Rabbi Simeon said: 'the world is created and established on the basis of a covenant, as it is written, 'if not for my covenant with the day and night, I had not appointed the ordinances of heaven and earth'. [Jeremiah 33:35]. This covenant is the Zaddik (righteous one), the foundation of the world [i.e. Yesod], and therefore the world is established on the covenant of day and night together, as stated in our text, the "ordinances of heaven' being those which flow and issue forth from the celestial Eden'. Also in [46A p.142-143] "The expression, 'God saw the light that it was good' means really 'God decided that the light should be only good', that is, that it should never be an instrument of wrath (cf. 'that it was good in the eyes of the Lord to bless Israel', Number 24:1); and this is proved by the end of the verse, 'and God divided the light from the darkness.' For although he afterwards united light and darkness, yet this light continued to emanate from the supernal radiance, and through that radiance to bring gladness to all. This also is the right hand through which the most deeply graven letters [IHV of the sacred name] are crowned... The treasuring up of the primal light is referred to in the verse, 'how great is thy goodness which thou has laid up for them that fear thee, which thou has wrought for them that trust in thee' [Psalm 31;20]."

> F.J. Mayers writes: "As a man may look in upon himself and consider the capabilities and qualities of his own mental prowess, so we are told, did God look upon himself... saw that it was 'good' suited to carry out his purpose and powerful for the task. So he set it in opposition to the 'darkness', separated it absolutely from the darkness as a 'being of light' to shine into the darkness. Thus the divine intelligence becomes, within chaos, a separative, selective, ordering force. It draw forth from the 'deep' all he needs (and as he requires it) for the 'realization of his every purpose'. Thus universal 'intelligence' was the first manifestation of deity." [The Unknown God, p.30]

---

### [vayomer elohim yehi aur vayehi aur](/keys/VIAMR.ALHIM.IHI.AVR.VIHI.AVR) - ויאמר אלהים יהי אור ויהי אור
> and Elohim said let there be light and there was light. According to Fabre D'Olivet:

> > VIAMR, and-he-said... it can be seen... it signifies not only to say, but according to the occasion, it can attain a signification much more exalted. Now, is the occasion more important than that in which the being of beings manifests his creative will? To understand it in the literal sense only, is to degrade it, and it detrimental to the thought of the writer. As the Judicious Maimonides said, it is necessary to spiritualize the sense of this word and to guard against imagining any sort of speech. It is an act of the will and as is indicated by the hieroglyphic compositions of the verb AMVR, a power which declares, manifest and reflects itself without, upon the being which it enlightens.

> > AVR, light... It is derived directly form the word AVR fire. The only difference between them is, that in the word which designate fire, it is the universal convertible sign Vav which forms the link between the sign of power Aleph, and that of movement proper Resh: whereas in the second, it is the intelligible sign Vav. Let us proceed further. If, from the words AVR and AVR, one takes away the median sign Vav or Vav there will remain the elementary root AR, composed of power and movements, which is all known tongues signifies by turns, Earth, Water, Air, fire, Ether, Light, according to the sign joined thereunto. see also, radical vocab. root AR.

> > VIHI, and there (shall be)-became... I must not neglect to say that Moses, profiting by the hieroglyphic genius of the Egyptian tongue, changing at will the future tense into past tense, depicts, on this occasion, the birth of light, symbol of intelligence corporeity, with an animation that no modern tongue can render except the Chinese. He writes first AVR-IHI there shall be light; then repeating the same words with the single addition of the convertible sign Vav, he turns suddenly the future into the past, as if the effect had been sustained before hand the outburst of the thought IHI-AVR and there (shall be) became light. This manner of speaking figuratively and hieroglyphically, always comes from the primitive meaning given to the word BRAShITh: the heavens and the earth created in principle, and passing from power into action, could unfold successively their virtual forces only as far as the divine will announces in the future, is manifest in the past. The being of beings knows no title. The Egyptian tongue is the only one in which the wonderful trope can take place even in the spoken tongue. It was as spoken effect in which form the hieroglyphic style passed into the figurative, and form the figurative into the literal." [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.33- 34]

---

### [eth-hatebah](/keys/ATh-HThBH) - את־התבה
THE ARK. see [412](412), [407](407). [Genesis 6:14](https://biblehub.com/genesis/6-14.htm): *:"Make thee an ark of gopher wood; rooms shalt thou make in **the ark**, and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch."*

---

### [hatachath](/keys/HThChTh) - התחת
instead. [Genesis 30:2](https://biblehub.com/genesis/30-2.htm): *"And Jacob's anger was kindled against Rachel: and he said, Am I in God's stead, who hath withheld from thee the fruit of the womb?"*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [anastasin](/greek?word=anastasin) (Gr) - ἀνάστασιν
Resurrection. [Matthew 22:23](https://biblehub.com/matthew/22-23.htm): *"The same day came to him the Sadducees, which say that there is no resurrection, and asked him"*

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
- [Bible Wheel: 813](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=813)
