## 831 - Eight Hundred Thirty-One
> (3x277)

---

### [letter-name Aleph](/keys/ALPf) - אלף
> Ox; family, clan, cattle; to teach or instruct. The ox or bull of solar fire. see [111](111).

---

### [leototh](/keys/LAThTh) - לאתת
> for signs. [Genesis 1:14](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-14.htm). Also, with different vowel points: to moisten grain.

---

### [eth-nephesh](/keys/ATh-NPSh) - את־נפש
THE LIFE. represents a single life. see [430](430). [Genesis 9:5](https://biblehub.com/genesis/9-5.htm): *"And surely your blood of your lives will I require; at the hand of every beast will I require it, and at the hand of man; at the hand of every man's brother will I require **the life** of man"*

---

### [wenishta'ah](/keys/VNShThOH) - ונשתעה
that we may be dismayed. [Isaiah 41:23](https://biblehub.com/isaiah/41-23.htm): *"Shew the things that are to come hereafter, that we may know that ye are gods: yea, do good, or do evil, **that we may be dismayed,** and behold it together."*

---

### [wehish-maati](/keys/VHShMOThI) - והשמעתי
and I have proclaimed. [Isaiah 43:12](https://biblehub.com/isaiah/43-12.htm): *"**I have declared,** and have saved, and I have shewed, when there was no strange god among you: therefore ye are my witnesses, saith the LORD, that I am God."*

---

### [wehith-paleshi](/keys/VHThPLShI) - והתפלשי
and roll about. [Jeremiah 6:26](https://biblehub.com/jeremiah/6-26.htm): *"O daughter of my people, gird thee with sackcloth, and **wallow thyself** in ashes: make thee mourning, as for an only son, most bitter lamentation: for the spoiler shall suddenly come upon us."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [he mesotes](/greek?word=h+mesoThs) (Gr) - η μεσοτης
> the mean, middle or midst. A mean between two extremes. Christian Gnostic designation of the Ogdoad [Thrice Greatest Hermes, 2:25], which they also called "Jerusalem above."

---

### [Makrokosmos](/greek?word=makrokosmos) (Gr) - μακροκοσμος
> Macrocosm (see [901](901)).

---

### [pyramis](/greek?word=puramis) (Gr) - πυραμις
> pyramid. An Egyptian (Greek) word. Means "fire in the middle" and is an proper late symbol of Aleph, the spiritual fire in initiation. see [901](901).

---

### [phallos](/greek?word=phallos) (Gr) - φαλλος
> Phallus; membrum virile, a figure thereof, which was borne in Solemn procession in the Bacchic orgies, as an emblem of the generative power in nature. see [418](418), [901](901).

> Note: according to the Zohar DOTh (Da'ath, "knowledge", associated with generation and conception) in [Proverbs 24:4](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/24-4.htm) refers to Jacob: *"And by knowledge shall the chambers be filled with all precious and pleasant riches."* Jacob means 'supplanter"; thus the creative imagination which brings knowledge and insight into the higher worlds though mental generation is what supplants the baser imagery associated with what α symbolizes:

> *"Psychologists know that in primitive minds the chief outlet of imagination is erotic, and this erotic tendency is never eliminated, even in the highest aspirations. All that is changed is the mode of expression, although the higher forms bear little outward resemblance to he crudities of gross imagination, so that we do not always find it easy to recognize the fundamental identity. You must wholly alter your conception of sex in order to comprehend the ancient wisdom... The error into which seekers or truth so often fall as soon as they realize this fact [that all the great symbols of the ancient wisdom have a decidedly phallic aspect] is in supposing that the way of regeneration is somehow related to the reproductive function of the sex organism. Noting could be further from the truth. It is the interior nervous system, not the external organs, that is always meant in phallic symbolism..."* [Book of Tokens Nun (note)].

> Note: "goodly words" is the attributed to Naphtali in Jacob's blessing [Genesis 49:21](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-21.htm). Naphtali is associated with Virgo (Key 9) and with alchemical distillation-this involved creative imagery. see [474](474), [182](182), [570](570).

---

### [thanatou](/greek?word=thanatou) (Gr) - θανάτου
of death. [Matthew 4:16](https://biblehub.com/matthew/4-16.htm): *"The people which sat in darkness saw great light; and to them which sat in the region and shadow **of death** light is sprung up."*

---

### [himatiou](/greek?word=imatiou) (Gr) - ἱματίου
garment. [Matthew 9:16](https://biblehub.com/matthew/9-16.htm): *"No man putteth a piece of new cloth unto an old garment, for that which is put in to fill it up taketh from the **garment**, and the rent is made worse."*

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
- [Bible Wheel: 831](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=831)
