## 837 - Eight Hundred Thirty-Seven
> (9x93)

---

### [Tayth Zal](/keys/ThTh.ZL) - תת זל
> the Profuse Giver. [Kether](/keys/KThR) and the number [1](1). see [736](736), [397](397), [620](620).

---

### [aluph](/keys/ALVP) - 
> chief, duke (as the dukes of Edom, #[51](51)); head of a family or tribe; friend, intimate companion; tame, docile; a champion in a game; guide. [Peh = 800] see [117](117).

> [Genesis 36:15](http://biblehub.com/genesis/36-15.htm) *"These were dukes of the sons of Esau: the son of Eliphaz the first born son of Esau; Duke Teman, Duke Omar, Duke Zepo, Duke Kenza."*

---

### [Paimon](/keys/PAIMVNf) - פאימון
> "tinkling sound"; demon King of Fire. When invoked, he takes the form of a young woman mounted on a dromedary with a crown upon his head. Under him are 200 legions of spirits, partly angelic, partly potentates (powers).

> Specifically, he is the goetic demon by day the 3rd decanate of Gemini. This decanate is co-ruled by Saturn and Uranus, and has the qualities of: adaptable, intuitive, original. The influence of the demon suggest conscious imbalance, leading to negative expression of the qualities. The 3rd of Gemini also corresponds to the 10 of Swords in the Tarot Minor arcana, which is the operation of Malkuth, sphere of the elements, in Yetzirah, the formative world. In Yetzirah, Malkuth expresses subtle and abstract astral forces in limited specific forms with veil and conceal their true nature. The influence of the demon can be suddenly unexpected changes in material affairs, interference from others, failure, desolation, misery and destruction, unless counterbalance is achieved, through proper understanding of inner power and their use. [Nun = 700] see [187](187).

---

### [kiy im-gawlah sodo elaebawdawyou ha-naybiayim + ahabethaw](/keys/KI.AM-GLH.SVDV.AL-OBDIV.HNBIAIM.AChBTh)
**כי אם־גלה סודו אל־עבדיו הנביאים אחבת**

> But he reveals his secrets (counsel) unto his servants the prophets plus thou shall love. see [408](408).

---

### See Also:

- [18](18)
- [9](9)
