## 850 - Eight Hundred Fifty
2x5x5x17

### [Nesharash](/keys/NShRSh) - נשרש
> Radical, root (race). The 5th path of Geburah. *"So called because it is akin to the primary force of the Archetypal Binah, which itself is enclosed within the strength of the Primordial Wisdom."* The first 3 letters spell **נשר**, [nasher](/keys/NShR), the noun meaning "eagle" and the last 3 form the noun **שרש**, [sharash](/keys/ShRSh), "a root." Therefore, the Radical Intelligence is the "Root of the Eagle." see 800, 1200, 216, 64, 92, 95, 297.

### [Tekeleth](/keys/ThKLTh) - תכלת
> a violet tint (translated as blue). The Zohar (3:135A) says *"Tekeleth, corresponds to passover, which established the dominance of the true object of faith, symbolized by the color blue, which would predominate only after the punishment of the first-born of Egypt was accomplished, so all colors seen in dreams are of good omen, except blue."* In Heraldry blue is Jove or Jupiter, corresponding to the Egyptian Gon Amun, whose body was painted blue. In Freemasonry, and in the National arms of the U.S., blue represents Justice, **דין**, [Deen](/keys/DIN). see 64.

### [Keleph](/keys/KLPf) - כלף
> to clap or strike; a hammer. The hammer relates to iron, and to the Mars-force; it strikes the "nail", which is Vav, or interior-hearing, as the grasp **כף** [Kaph](/keys/KP) of the blue of Lamed, which is Justice, or right action, is accomplished. see [130](130). [Peh = 800]

Think of Thor's hammer, Mjolnir.

### [Qadmon](/keys/QDMVNf) - קדמון
> ancient, old; archetypal. Epithet of God. see [86](86) (Greek), [200](200). [Nun = 700]

### [Miriam](/keys/MRIM) - מרים
> Mary, sister of Moses, signifying "rebellion, perversity, antagonism". *[Exodus 15:21](http://biblehub.com/exodus/15-21.htm) "and **Miriam** answered them, 'sing ye to the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously; the horse and his rider has he thrown into the sea.'"* These meanings are mental states having close association with strong, but unfulfilled desires. see [290](290). [Mem = 600]

### [Noph](/keys/NP) - נף
> Memphis, the capital of Egypt. *[Ezekiel 30:13](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/30-13.htm) "Thus is what the Lord God says: 'I will destroy the idols and put an end to the images in **Memphis.** No longer will there be a prince in Egypt, and I will spread fear throughout the land."* Egypt is the symbol of the subconscious plane. see [130](130), [380](380). [Peh = 800]

### [Temathi](/keys/ThMThI)
> my perfect one. In [Canticles 5:2](http://biblehub.com/songs/5-2.htm) it is written *"I sleep, but my heart wakes: it is the voice of my beloved that knocks, saying, open to me my sister, my love, my dove, **my undefiled:** for my head is filled with dew, and my locks with the drops of the night."* Continuous practice of redirecting the eagle upward establishes within the brain centers (Moon and Mercury) a tremendous reserve of the precious dew. Hod, sphere of Mercury is called the Perfect Intelligence, thus this 'perfect one" has established the guidance of the angel as in Key 6 over self and sub-conscious modes of the personality-the heart is opened by Vav (assigned to Tiphareth or 6) and the "dove" (Venus), being purified and undefiled is able to hear the "voice" of the beloved, or higher self." "My sister", **אחתי**, [Achoti](/keys/AChThI), is Gimel or Memory, as the lesser Chokmah or wisdom.

## Greek

### Ho ophis (Gr) - Ο Οφις
> the serpent. A symbol of the evil and destructive aspects of the 5th Path.

> *[Revelation 12:9](http://biblehub.com/revelation/12-9.htm) And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world: he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.*

### On (Gr) - Ων
> On, an Egyptian God. It is declared of on that he "is, and never knew beginning." We read in Genesis that Joseph married Asenath, Daughter of the Egyptian priest of On, and that Ephraim and Manasseh were children of that marriage. see [581](581).