## 859 - Eight Hundred Fifty-Nine
 (prime)

---

### [Saykel regash](/keys/ShKL.RGVSh) - שכל רגוש
> Disposing Intelligence. Variant spelling without Heh (the). see [863](863).

> "Note that the path of Zain is called 'the foundation of beauty in the place of the supernals." The foundation is Yesod, the 9th Sephirah, seat of the automatic consciousness. Beauty is Tiphareth, the seat of the Ego-consciousness. the place of the supernals is the archetypal world of the Qabalists, which includes the three supernal Sephiroth, Kether, Chokmah and Binah, corresponding to the three highest grades of the Order. It is because the path of Zain leads to Binah that its influence is said to be in the place of the supernals... This [the fact that subconsciousness is always amenable to control by suggestion], as the text says, 'disposes the righteous to faithfulness.' For the righteous are those who have brought their thought, feeling and action into harmony with the universal order. And the faithfulness to which they are disposed is represented by Key 11 in Tarot... Men and woman who are so disposed to faithfulness are said to be 'clothed with the holy life-breath' and this is another reason for the nudity of the human figures in Key 6. There are clothed with spirit, and the word for spirit, in all tongues is synonymous with air. They have nothing to hide. In yet a deeper sense such persons are clothed with the life-breath, for they are invested with powers unknown to ordinary human beings." [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p.429- 431]

> The path of Zain, Disposing Intelligence, suggest by its name the operation of the supernal understanding, Binah, in separating the creatures produced by the Constituting Intelligence into species, classes etc. The fundamental separation is that of sex, and hence this path is indicated by Zain, the sword and by the lovers in the Tarot. [32 paths]

> "I am the Disposing Intelligence, choosing with discrimination each step towards the one light which alone is pure in beauty." [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom].

> [beginning of text missing] the fruit of love, which conquers death and gives immortality. Its source is the power of the divine soul. In alchemy, discrimination is used between the solar and lunar currents in the body to become a free channel for the cosmic life-force. The personality of the man engaged in this practice becomes a free, unobstructed channel for the out-pouring of the holy life-breath, which "clothes the compassionate". Breath is air, and to be clothed with breath is literally seen in Key 6. A master of compassion is free form guile, free from all the concealments which characterize the consciousness of those who are deluded by the sense of separateness. The place of the supernals includes Binah, understanding. Binah is the Yesod, or foundation of Tiphareth, because without understanding the Ego in Tiphareth would have no firm basis. see [508](508), [513](513).

---

### [qeleph targum](/keys/QLP.ThRGVM) - קלף תרגום
Parchment [Targum](/keys/ThRGVM). "Parchment T" from a phrase in the [Fama](https://archive.org/stream/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985#page/n23/mode/2up): *"In his hand he held a parchment called T, the which next to the Bible is our greatest treasure, which ought not to be delivered to the censure of the world."* see [610](610), [649](649).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [phatne](/greek?word=phatne) (Gr) - φάτνῃ
> manger, cave or grotto. The place where the infant Jesus was born. [Luke 2:7, 12, 16](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=luke%202%3A7,12,16&version=ESV;VULGATE) *"And she brought forth her first-born son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger; because there was no room for them in the inn." (12) "And this shall be a sign unto you; ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger." (16) "And they came with haste, and found Mary and Joseph, and the babe lying in a manger."* These two words, "It is finished" and "manger", refer to the alchemical death and initiation into the mysteries, and to the place of the birth of the Christ-child. The cave is also the alchemical laboratory, where the Virgin's Milk is extracted and utilized.

> In the Greek text φάτνη is written φάτνῃ with Iota, subscript under η, which if counted would make the value of the word [869](869). see [867](867), [869](869).

> In [Luke 13:15](http://biblehub.com/luke/13-15.htm) it is translated "stall". While this is the classical meaning of the word, it has been pretty clearly demonstrated that in the New Testament it means the open court yard of the inn, or khan, which was inclosed by a fence of some kind where the cattle were shut up for the night." [Bible Encyclopedia and Scriptural Dictionary] Also means "feedingplace" [Standard Bible Dictionary]. see [1472](1472).

---

### [he ano](/greek?word=h+anO) (Gr) - ἡ ἄνω
> the on high. [Galatians 4:26](http://biblehub.com/galatians/4-26.htm): *"But the Jerusalem which is above [on high] is free, which is the mother of us all."* This refers to the ogdoad-the spiritual state of praising God. see [831](831) (Greek).

---

### [he uparksis](/greek?word=h+uparksis) (Gr) - η υπαρξις
> The substance. [Hebrews 11:1](http://biblehub.com/hebrews/11-1.htm) *"Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen."* (Here a different word is used, ὑπόστασις (hypostasis), or "basis", rather than "substance".)

---

### See Also:

- [22](22)
- [4](4)



