## 867 - Eight Hundred Sixty-Seven
> 3x17x17.

### [Beth ha-shefah](/keys/BITh.HShPO) - בית השפע
> House of Influence. Intelligence of [Cheth](/keys/Ch), the [18th Path](18). Also: "House of overflowing, House of Abundance":

> - [Beth](/keys/B), mercurial outpouring-the Life-power provides itself with a house; 
> - [Yod](/keys/I), the Life-power unites all through will; 
> - [Tav](/keys/T), this power is the dance of Life. 
> - [Heh](/keys/H), the whole universe is Life's definition of itself. 
> - [Shin](/keys/Sh), the overflowing abundance of the 18th path is fiery, the Life-breath of the creative powers; 
> - [Peh](/keys/P) it is martian and disruptive, yet curbed and directed by means of the saturnine power of Limitation; 
> - [Ayin](/keys/O), to travel the 18th path of the way of return is suggested by reversing the letters of השפע thus: עפשה, [OPShH](/keys/OPShH).

> see [1217](1217), [414](414), [418](418), [95](95), [319](319), [450](450).

### [Elohi abika Elohi Abraham Elohi yitzoq ve-Elohi Jacob](/keys/ALHI.ABIK.ALHI.ABRHM.ALHI.ITzChQ.VALHI.IOVQB)
> **אלהי אביך אלהי אברהם אלהי יצחק ואלהי יעוקב**

> The God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. Spelled אבתיכם [aebothekem](/keys/ABThIKM) in [Exodus 3:15](http://biblehub.com/exodus/3-15.htm): *"And God said more over unto Moses, thus shall thou say unto the children of Israel, the Lord God of our fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob, has sent me unto you: this im my name forever, and this im my memorial unto all generations."* see [1301](1301), [248](248), [208](208), [182](182).

## Greek

[He phatne](/greek?word=h+phatnh) (Gr) - η φατνη
> the manger [Luke 2:7, 12, 16](http://biblehub.com/luke/2-7.htm). There may be an obscure connection between this and the part of the physical body ruled by cancer, which contains the stomach. Cancer also governs the breast from which infants are fed. see [859](859) Greek.