## 876 - Eight Hundred Seventy-Six
> (3x4x73)

---

### [tekunath](/keys/ThKVNTh) - תכונת
> treasure, dwelling place. From a root meaning: to arrange, to measure, to design, to plan. Refers to Hod, the Perfect Intelligence, linked to Beth (house-mercury). The introduction of the personal factor of human intellectual activity brings out, arranges, cultivates latent potencies. see [1431](1431).

---

### [Malkuth Arawfel](/keys/MLKVTh.ORPL) - מלכות ערפל
> Kingdom of darkness. A Qabalistic technical term, relating to the Malkuth as the ultimate point of descent from the White Brilliance of Kether the Crown. see [496](496), [380](380).

---

### [oof](/keys/OVPf) - עוף
> to cover with wings, to fly, fly away; to flicker. Also עוף fowl, bird, winged creature. [Peh = 800] see [156](156).

---

### [Joseph](/keys/IVSPf) - יוסף
> Multiplier, addition. [Genesis 49:26](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-26.htm): *"The blessings of thy father have prevailed above the blessings of my progenitors unto the utmost bound of the everlasting hills: they shall be on the head of Joseph, and on the crown of the head of him that was separate from his brethren."* Yesod as the generative power of Tiphareth is one meaning; it is the dwelling place of the "multiplier". The separated brethren are multiplied into unity. Note: The correspondence of יוסף and to עוף, both representing the positive aspects of the North, just as מלכות ערפל and שקוץ שמם are terms relating to the negative aspects. see [156](156).

---

### [orem](/keys/ORVMf) - ערום
> subtle. [Genesis 3:1](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-1.htm) *"Now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made. And he said unto the woman, yea have God said, ye shall not eat of every tree of the Garden?"* [Mem = 600] see [316](316).

---

### [tzaphon](/keys/TzPVNf) - צפון
> north, dark, hidden. Also: north-wind. The face on the cube of space attributed to Peh or Mars; the place of greatest symbolic darkness, from where Uriel ("Light of God") comes forth. [Nun = 700] see [226](226).

---

### [shikkutz shomame](/keys/ShQVTz.ShMM) - שקוץ שמם
> abomination of desolation. [Daniel 12:11](http://biblehub.com/daniel/12-11.htm): *"And from the time that the daily sacrifice shall be taken away, and the abomination that makes desolate be set up, there shall be a thousand two hundred and ninety days."* Compare with Malkuth Arawfel. The word שקוץ is numerically equivalent to מלכות, and שמם = ערפל. The abomination which makes desolate is the substitution of the "Kingdom of Darkness" for the "Rule of Light." It is materialistic reliance on the physical in place of the spiritual. The "abomination of desolation" is darkness for those without the eyes to see. The spirit is our redeemer, it is the power collected in the solar radiance, the water of mediation that nourished our kingship and the light that rules over the physical. see [80](80), [85](85), [549](549), [226](226), [95](95), [921](921), [496](496), [380](380).

---

### [Sar-Shalom](/keys/ShR-ShLVM) - שר־שלום
> Prince of Peace [Isaiah 9:6](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/9-6.htm). A name of Kether. see [111](111), [157](157), [507](507), [620](620), [589](589).

---

### [Gaaph](/keys/GOPf) - 
> Goetic demon by day of the 3rd decanate of Aquarius. This suggest self-consciousness imbalance, resulting in faulty meditation and revelation. "Once of the order of potentates (Powers), now a fallen angel, Gaap serves in hell, as a great president and a mighty prince. As king of the south, he rules 66 legions of infernal spirits... pictured in the form of a human being with huge bat wings." [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.???] [Peh = 800] see [153](153).

---

### See Also:

- [21](21)
- [3](3)
