## 888 - Eight Hundred Eighty-Eight
> (3x8x37)

### [chapaph, chawphaph](/keys/ChPPf) - חפף
> to cover, protect; to enclose, surround. חפף in [Deuteronomy 33:12](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/33-12.htm): *"And of [Benjamin](/keys/BNIMIN) he said, the beloved of the Lord shall dwell in safety by him; and the Lord shall cover him all the day long, and he shall dwell between his shoulders."* [Peh = 800] see [168](168).

### [aesoth IHVH Elohim](/keys/OShVTh.IHVH.ALHIM) - עשות יהוה אלהים
> "IHVH Elohim made." [Genesis 2:4](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-4.htm): *"These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created, in the day that the Lord God [IHVH Elohim] made the earth and the heavens."* see [86](86), [26](26).

### [Moshe + eheieh asher eheieh](/keys/MShH.AHIH.AShR.AHIH) - משה + אהיה אשר אהיה 
> [Moses](/keys/MShH) plus "I am that I am." משה is water (Mem), Fire (Shin) and vision (Heh). He was the great initiate who preceded Jesus, and is linked here with the I AM as the source of his illumination. אשר, [Asher](/keys/AShR), is also the tribe of Israel connected with alchemical sublimation under the sign Libra, suggesting that equilibrium brings illumination from above, into the head-and heart. see [345](345), [501](501), [21](21), [543](543), [1648](1648) (Greek).

### [tepatach](/keys/ThPThCh) - תפתח
> you shall engrave. [Exodus 28:11](http://biblehub.com/exodus/28-11.htm). [Gutman Locks: The Spice of Torah, p.301]

### [tepatach](/keys/ThPThCh) - תפתח
> you shall open. [Deuteronomy 15:8](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/15-8.htm).

## Greek

### [Iesous](/greek?word=iesous) (Gr) - Ἰησοῦς
> Jesus. From the beginning the church has set apart [8](8), as the Dominical number, or number of the Lord, referring to Jesus as "One with the Father," who, as IHVH ([26](26)) is also [8](8). see [971](971), [1844](1844), [1988](1988), [1480](1480), [2368](2368), [644](644), [1768](1768), [800](800), [656](656), [1408](1408), [496](496), [1776](1776), [688](688), [326](326).

"For Jesus (Ἰησοῦς) is a name arithmetically symbolical consisting of six letters, and is known by all those that belong to the called." [Irenaeus].

### [Logos esti](/greek?word=logos+esti) (Gr) - λόγος εστι
> He is the word; a reference to Christ.

### [ho oikodomos aletheias](/greek?word=o+oikodomos+alethhias) (Gr) - ο οικοδομος αλεθηιας
> the architect of truth, or the builder of truth; epithet of Christ.

### [aletheuomenos](/greek?word=alhtheuomenos) (Gr) - αληθευομενος
> the one who is fulfilled, the fulfiller.

### [nikeh kosmou](/greek?word=nikh+kosmou) (Gr) - νίκη κόσμου
> victory of the world. Mentioned in [1 John 5:4](http://biblehub.com/1_john/5-4.htm) as κόσμον "Because all that has been begotten by God overcomes the world; and this is the victory which overcomes the world-our faith." victorious Lord.

### [legon](/greek?word=legOn) (Gr) - λέγων
Saying. I say, speak. [Matthew 3:1](http://biblehub.com/matthew/3-1.htm) *"In those days came John the Baptist, preaching in the wilderness of Judaea, {[2](http://biblehub.com/matthew/3-2.htm)} And **saying**, Repent ye: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand."* 
