## 890 - Eight Hundred Ninety
> (2x5x89)

---

### [messiachu koresh](/keys/MShIChV.KVRSh) - משיחו כורש
his anointed, Cyrus.

> [beginning of text missing] thus "his anointed, Cyrus", is a
veil for [messiachu kadmothenu](/keys/MShIChV.KDMVThNV), משיחו כדמותנו, "his anointed (or his Messiah), after our likeness." Observe also that [526](526) = ShPIPVN, adder, which is DN (Dan-see above) and thus is related to Cyrus, by gematria. (the adder or cerastes = Scorpio). see [526](526), [361](361).

> His anointed Cyrus, cont. [Isaiah 45:1] "Thus says the Lord to his anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have holden, to subdue nations before him; and I will loose the loins of kings, to open before him the two leaved gates, and the gates shall not be shut."

> [Note: in the Interlinear Bible his anointed, Cyrus is LKVRSh (to Cyrus, 556) LMShIChV (to-anointed-of-him, 394)]

---

### [maarth ha'makpelah](/keys/MORTh.HMKPLH) - מערת המכפלה
> cave of Machpelah. [Genesis 23:9](http://biblehub.com/genesis/23-9.htm): *"That he may give me the cave of Machpelah..."* Abraham's cave in the field of Machpelah. Machpelah means "duplicity", and aptly characterizes the double-meanings of the two previous examples [which are missing]. The "cave" is a symbol of the lower nature of the soul which is immersed in the duplicity or appearances of the physical plane. see [175](175). Out of this state comes the Messiah through right direction of the force represented by Scorpio. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.545] gives: speunca duplex and cites the Zohar.

---

### [eth-matotham](/keys/ATh-MTThM) - את־מטתם
their rods. see [489](489). [Exodus 7:12](https://biblehub.com/exodus/7-12.htm): *"For they cast down every man his rod, and they became serpents: but Aaron's rod swallowed up **their rods**"*

---

## Greek

---

### Topan + Timel (Gr)
> The All plus Honor (or reverence). see [370](370), [131](131), [388](388) Greek.

---

### enaulon dios
> divine abode. Mount Olympus was considered by the ancient Greeks to be the home of Gods.

---

### See Also:

- [89](89)
- [17](17)
- [8](8)
- [Bible Wheel: 890](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=890)
