## 901 - Nine Hundred One
> ([17](17)x[53](53))

- זבח [zabakh](/keys/ZBCh) ("sacrifice") multiplied by:
- אבן [ehben](/keys/ABN) ("stone")

---

### [Oren](/keys/ARNf) - ארן
> The pine, a fir or cedar; strength. see [251](251).

---

### [Aron](/keys/ARNf) - ארן
> Ark (of the covenant).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Iaccus](/greek?word=iakchos) (Gr) - Ἴακχος
> Dionysus. The Eleusinian mystery name for Dionysus. see [811](811).

---

### [Ho Makrokosmos](/greek?word=o+makrokosmos) (Gr) - ο μακροκοσμος
> The Macrocosm, universe.

---

### [ho pyramis](/greek?word=o+puramis) (Gr) - ο πυραμις
> the pyramid. An Egyptian word. The pyramid was regarded as a geometrical symbol of the Macrocosm.

---

### [Ho Phallos](/greek?word=o+phallos) (Gr) - ο φαλλος
> The phallus; I.e. creative power symbolized in India by the Shiva-lingam. see [831](831).

---

### [Saulos](/greek?word=saulos) (Gr) - Σαῦλος
> Saul, name of the apostle, who before his conversion, persecuted Christians. [Acts 9:1](http://biblehub.com/acts/9-1.htm). *"And Saul, yet breathing out threatening and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, went unto the High Priest."*

> *D.D. Bryant says that both this Saul and the Saul of the Old Testament who fought the Philistines is Sol, the Sun, and that the two stories bear many points of resemblance to each other and mystically interpreted, will be found to be the same story in a different setting. Dr. Case comments: More likely [than that Paul is but a paraphrase of the Greek Apollo, God of the Sun] that "Paul" has the exoteric sense of "littleness" in contrast to the greatness implied in the kingly name Saul; and the esoteric sense of Mikros, small, implied in Paul's evident realization of the truth that man is a microcosm.* [Case of D.D. Bryant]. see [331](331), [340](340) Greek, [337](337), [781](781).

---

### See Also:

- [91](91)
- [10](10)
- [1](1)
