## 986 - Nine Hundred Eighty-Six
> (2x17x29)

### [Saykel ha-khayfetz ha-meboqash](/keys/ShKL.HChPTz.HMBVQSh) - שכל החפץ המבוקש
> Intelligence of Desirous Quest, Intelligence of Conciliation, Rewarding Intelligence of Those Who Seek, or Desired and sought Consciousness. The [21st path](21) of [Kaph](/keys/K). Desirous Quest (literally, "the inclination to seek"), is from a root word [meboqash](/keys/MBVQSh) meaning "emptiness," and has a meaning akin to the English nouns "hunger" and "thirst." In Man's quest for abundance, like his other personal activities, is a response to the descending influence of the Life-power. We seek because what we seek is really within us, and whatever we gain is actually a recollection of what the One Identity already has in store for us. Links memory ([Chesed](/keys/ChSD)) and desire ([Netzach](/keys/NTzCh)). 

> One part of the secret of this path has to do with radical transformation in the physical body. Perseverance in right desire, in meditation, and courage to face difficulties and learn to solve problems are required. Desire is the motive-power which leads to grasp the law of rotation and cyclicity (circulation of the universal Life-breath or "Wheels with Wheels.") Through this path of Jupiter we receive the divine influence and partake of the blessing it distributes to all modes of being. It must permeate subconsciousness through practice of recollection. Recognition of the identity of the Ego in man with cosmic Self changes the alchemical metals with the celestial gold of spiritual enlightenment. This is the "Great Reward" of the possessor of this path. see [448](448), [100](100), [194](194), [477](477), [20](20), [178](178), [636](636).

> One secret of this path is the balance of the chakras through meditation. To succeed in meditation one must have a strong desire for freedom.

### See Also

- [23](23)
- [5](5)