## 102 - One Hundred Two
> (2x3x17)

---

### [Ahah Adonai Jehovah](/keys/AHH.ADNI.IHVH) - אהה אדני יהוה
> "Ah, Lord Jehovah." [Jeremiah 32:17](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/32-17.htm).

---

### [emunah](/keys/AMVNH) - אמונה
> faithfulness, firmness, steadfastness, trust, faith, religion, confidence. A significant word in the higher grade of Free Masonry.

> In [Deuteronomy 32:4](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/32-4.htm): *"For his works are perfect, and all his was are just; he is a faithful God and without iniquity, just and upright is he."*

> And in [Isaiah 25:1](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/25-1.htm): *"O Lord, thou art my God; I will praise your name; for you have done wonderful things, and given faithful counsel from afar, amen."*

---

### [Elohenu](/keys/ALHINV) - אלהינו
> "our God". [Deuteronomy 6:4](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/6-4.htm). Part of the Shema. *"Hear, o isreal: the Lord our God, the Lord is One."*

---

### [yatssab](/keys/ITzB) - יצב
> to place, to station; to continue. As an Aramaic noun: to speak truly, truth.

---

### [tsebiy](/keys/TzBI) - צבי
> grace, splendor; glory. Also: stag, deer, gazelle see [3](3), [12](12), [21](21), [30](30), [39](39), [48](48), [66](66), [75](75), [84](84), [93](93), [111](111).

---

### [qab](/keys/QB) - קב
> a dry measure of capacity; crutch; to curse. [2 Kings 6:25](http://biblehub.com/2_kings/6-25.htm): *"There was a great famine in the city [of Samaria]; the siege lasted so long that a donkey head sold for 80 shekels of silver, and a fourth of a qab of seed pods for 5 shekels."*

> Fabre D'Olivet writes: *"קב. The onomatopoetic root קא, united by contraction to the sign of interior activity Beth, expresses all rejection, expurgation. Literally, it is an excavation; figuratively, an anathema, a malediction.*

> *But if one considers here the figure Qoph, as being contracted with the root אב, then the root קב characterizes every object capable of and containing every kind of measure: Literally, genitalia muliebra; figuratively a bad place.*

> *The Arabic [word] is an onomatopoetic and idiomatic root expressing every effort that one makes to cut, carve, sharpen. it characterizes, in general, that which retrenches or is retrenched; thence, the idea of a price, a magistrate; of any man or any thing which operate a line of demarcation [Arabic word] designates again, the principal sound of the musical system, the keynote."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 438-439](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/438)
]
---

### [Baal](/keys/BOL) - בעל
> Lord, Master, possessor, owner, proprietor; husband, the Canaanite God Baal. With different vowel points: to rule over, be married, have sexual intercourse (see [543](543), [581](581)).

---

### [Belah](/keys/BLO) - בלע
> Bela, a king of Edom. [Genesis 36:32](http://biblehub.com/genesis/36-32.htm): *"And Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom..."* Edom signifies unbalanced force. Note that this word is a metathesis of BOL. Godwin says that he is associated with Da ath. see [474](474), [51](51).

---

### [ahooz laban](/keys/AVVZ.LBN) - אווז לבן
> The white goose. White is connected with the Moon. see [57](57).

---

### [Ben Ha-Adam](/keys/BN.HADM) - בן האדם
> The Son of Man. A Title applied to Christ. Throughout the New Testament. Hebrew spelling. see [2960](2960) (Greek).

---

### [wilon, vilon](/keys/VILVN) - וילון
> veil; the first of seven heavens of the Tree of Life, corresponding to Yesod, the astral and to Malkuth, the physical plane. see [752](752), [80](80), [496](496).

---

### [nahamad](/keys/NChMD) - בן האדם
> concupiscibills; covetousness, eagerly desiring, endeavoring after, aiming at, according to Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p. ?16?]. This is the positive attitude of an aspirant on the paths of return. This word does not occur in scripture or in the Hebrew lexicon.

> However, Fabre D'Olivet says of the first two letters: *"נח. If one considers this root as formed of the united signs of produced existence, and elementary existence, it implies a movement which leads toward an end: If one considers it is formed of this same sign of produced existence united by contraction to the root אח, image of all equilibratory force, it furnishes the idea of that perfect repose which result for a thing long time agitate contrarily, and the point of equilibrium which it attains where it dwells immobile. thence, נח, in the first case, and in a restricted sense, a guide: In the second case, and in a general sense, the repose of existence."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 399](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/398)

> Of the second two letters he writes: *"מד. The sign of exterior action, being united to that of elementary division, constitutes that root which come all ideas of measure, dimension, mensuration, commensurable extent, and in a metaphorical sense, those of custom, rule, condition. The Arabic [word] develops in general, the same ideas as the Hebrew. in particular, it is that which extends, unfolds, lengthens."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 386](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/386)]

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [akeldama](/greek?word=akeldama) (Gr) - Ἁκελδαμά
> mania, frenzy. [Acts 1:19](http://biblehub.com/acts/1-19.htm). See [702](702) (Gr).

---

### [Porta Coeli](/latin?word=Porta+Coeli) (Lt)
> Gate of Heaven.

---

### [punctus](/latin?word=punctus) (Lt)
> pointed, pricked in.

---

### [proteus](/latin?word=proteus) (Lt)
> change. From Fama "Rota Mundi for that displaying the Greatest Artifice, and proteus the most profitable." Variant spelling (see [110](110)).

---

### [punctus](/latin?word=punctus) (Lt)
> pierced. Letters inscribed at the center of a hexagram, part of a plate "God known of the heart", in [Secret Symbols]. It is understood as emblematic of the christhood. That which is born in darkness must die on the cross of suffering. [Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross, p. XX]

---

### English Gematria:

- [Jesuiter](/english?word=Jesuiter) *([Fama Intro p.20](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n20))*. see also [Jesuiter (Latin)](/latin?word=Jesuiter).

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
