## 1081 - One Thousand Eighty-One
> Σ[46](46) = 1081.

### [Tiphareth](/keys/ThPARTh) - תפארת
> Beauty, the 6th Sephirah. Seat of the Creative Word or Logos. Sphere of the sun. the "Intelligence of separated influence" or "Intelligence of parted or allotted outflow." Sometime "Intelligence of Mediating Influence." Microprospus or lesser countenance. A reservoir, into which flow, by the channels of the various letters, the influences of the 5 sephiroth above it on the Tree. The principle of rulership-the "King" (Melek) who wears the crown (Kether).

> Tiphareth is the active manifestation of the Cosmic Self as the Ego through the path of Gimel (High Priestess-Memory), which projects Mezla, the holy influence, from Kether. Represents the formative world of Imagination, [Ruach](/keys/RVCh), רוח -- the point where the power of the universal Life-breath manifests itself as the active principle at the core of our personalities, or "I AM," the Primal Will (Eheyeh or Yekhidah). Consciousness of Lesser Adept in Rosicrucian Initiation. see [45](45), [52](52), [67](67), [80](80), [311](311), [528](528), [1370](1370), [640](640), [548](548), [536](536), [90](90), [281](281), [666](666), [281](281).

> The 6th Sephirah is also חמה, [Khammaw](/keys/ChMH), or שמש, [Shemesh](/keys/ShMSh), the Sphere of the Sun. Sun-gods are gods of justice and its administration. Thus Apollo, among the Greeks, was the rewarder and punisher as well as patron of the arts, especially of music. The Egyptian deity Osiris is also a dispenser of rewards and punishments, a god of fertility, and a sun-god. In the New Testament the "Son of Man" is a judge, a king, a fertility Source (for from him flows the water of life), and is called "Sun of righteousness." [See glossary for further commentary under "Tree."] *[The Gematria Notebooks of Paul Foster Case]*

### [Notariqon](/keys/NVTRIQVNf) - נוטריקון
> The cabalistic theory of acronyms. Nun (final) = 700. see [431](431).

### [Lekah Otzeroth Khoshek](/keys/LK.AVTzRVTh.ChShK) - לך אוצרות חשך
> To thee the treasures of darkness. [Isaiah 45:3](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/45-3.htm). The "darkness" is the primordial state of matter. Its treasures are those of the unmanifest, potential state of being, as limitless now as at anytime past.

### [rekeb Elohim ribothaim aliphiy](/keys/RKB.ALHIM.RBThIM.ALPI) - רכב אלהים רבתים אלפי
> "The chariots of God are 20,000." "Chariots" are to be understood as vehicles of manifestation, and the number 20,000 may be expressed in Hebrew by a large Kaph (Kaph). The "Chariots" are the wheels of manifestation.
