## 1200 - One Thousand Two Hundred
[4](4)x[3](3)x[100](100)

---

### [Kos tankhumim](/keys/KVS.ThNChVMIMf) - כוס תנחומים
> cup of consolation see [640](640).

---

### [Sekhel Nesharash](/keys/ShKL.NShRSh) - שכל נשרש
> Radical Intelligence. The 5th Path of Geburah. Derived from a noun meaning "Root." The first three letters of נשרש ([Nesharash](/keys/NShRSh)) spell נשר [Nasher](/keys/NShR), meaning "Eagle" and its last three letters from שרש [Sharash](/keys/ShRSh), "A root." The radical Intelligence is thus the "Root of the Eagle," which is Scorpio, ruled by Mars. The root or basis of those activities linked with Scorpio, when the Scorpio has been transformed into the Eagle. The root of physical existence becomes purified into the highest powers of creative imagination, constructive reasoning and foresight. The animal reproductive (Mars) force is "Set up for the ruin of many, and for the salvation of the few" at present. see [216](216), [92](92), [64](64), [850](850).

---

### [Tav-Shin-Vav-Beth-Heh](/keys/ThV-ShIN-VV-BITh-HH) - תו־שין־וו־בית־הה
> Letter-name values for [Teshubah](/keys/ThShVBH), Return. The secret value of תשובה is the number of the 12 tribes of Israel combined with the three-fold multiplication of the number of Yod, and also the number of Malkuth, or 12x10x10x10 = 1200. The tribes are the powers of Adam. see [713](713).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [photinos](/greek?word=photinos) (Gr) - φοτινος
lustrous; bright.

---

### [meneto](/greek?word=menetO) (Gr) - μενέτω
[let remain; let abide; continue](https://biblehub.com/greek/meneto__3306.htm). [1 Corinthians 7:20](https://biblehub.com/text/1_corinthians/7-20.htm): *"**Let** every man **abide** in the same calling wherein he was called."*

---

### See Also:

- [120](120)
- [12](12)
- [3](3)
- [Bible Wheel: 1200](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=1200)

