## 123 (3x41)

---

### [Ehah IHVH Elohim](/keys/AHH.IHVH.ALHIM) - אהה יהוה אלהים
> "Oh, IHVH, Elohim." a name of God, implying Kether, Chokmah and Binah. 3, 4, and 5 letters.

---

### [milkhamah](/keys/MLChMH) - מלחמה
> war, battle, quarrel, controversy. [Exodus 15:3](http://biblehub.com/exodus/15-3.htm).

---

### [nago](/keys/NGO) - נגע
> a blow, stroke, spot, mark, sore, plague, esp. suspected Leprosy.

---

### [oneg](/keys/ONG) - ענג
> pleasure, delight, enjoyment. metathesis of נגע. Gimel = Uniting Intelligence is now the result of piercing the bonds of ignorance (Ayin) and transforming negative patterns (Nun). Life becomes more delightful.

---

### [enneg](/keys/ONG) - ענג
> to make soft, make tender, to make pleasant; to enjoy.

---

### [pegam](/keys/PGM) - פגם
> defect, blemish; injury, hurt, damages for blemish; the decrease of the moon, decline. This the power of Mars (Peh) which pierces the veils of ignorance in subconsciousness, the Moon (Gimel), affecting reversal of mental substance (Mem), and which can cause pain in the process.

---

### [pahgam](/keys/PGM) - פגם
> to cut, mutilate; to discredit [laesio aliqualis violatio: an attack on someone, an injury].

---

### [kohen ha-godol](/keys/KHN.HGDVL) - כהן הגדול
> "the high priest". In [Leviticus 21:10](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/21-10.htm): *"The High Priest, the one ordained to wear the priestly garments, must not let his hair become unkempt or tear his clothes."* see [75](75), [43](43), [773](773).

---

### (Fr.) [B.M.P.A.](/keys/BMPA) - במפא
One of the original founders of the Rosicrucian Order, named with the epithet "Painter and Architect" ("Pictor & Architectus") in the [[Fama Fraternitatis](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/24)]. See [28](28) (Lt), [213](213) (Lt).

---

### Greek/Latin:

---

### [B.M.P.A](/greek?word=bmpa) (Gr) - Β.Μ.Π.Α.
One of the original founders of the Rosicrucian Order (see above).

---

### [Confessionem](/latin?word=Confessionem) (Lt)
Confession. Name of one of the Rosicrucian manifestoes. See [153](153) (Latin).

---

### [magisterium](/english?word=magisterium) (Lt)
the teaching authority of the Roman Catholic Church, especially as exercised by bishops or the pope. see [Magysterium](/english?word=Magysterium) ([143](143)).

---

### [Adam Haselmeyer](/english?word=Adam+Haselmeyer) (English)
Public Notary for Maximilian III of Austria, who published the first public commentary on the Rosicrucian Manifestoes, and was imprisoned in the galleys as a result. see [198](198) (Lt), [[Fama Intro p.19](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n19)], [[The Rosucrucian Manuscripts](https://books.google.com/books?id=-0Rge6aK0goC&pg=PA61&lpg=PA61&dq=adam+haselmeyer&source=bl&ots=yQbEVpZyzj&sig=zaFYPA4ud2U4P3hDGfklG3On4Ec&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjR3-DXwaHbAhXafCsKHTejBOQQ6AEIMjAB#v=onepage&q=adam%20haselmeyer&f=false)], [[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adam_Haslmayr)]

---

### See Also:

- [6](6)
