## 127 - One Hundred Twenty-Seven
> (prime). The total number of Sarah's years. [Genesis 23:1](http://biblehub.com/genesis/23-1.htm): *"And the Life of Sarah was 120 and 7 years."* .

---

### [motebah](/keys/MVTBO) - מוטבע
> Natural. From a verb טבע, [Tawbah](/keys/TBO), meaning to press in, to impress, to sink. As a noun it means nature. The meanings of this word imply that nature is like the impression made on wax by a signet ring. Closely related is the occult doctrine that nature is impressed with characters written by the Hand of God. This is a figurative way of stating what is strictly true. One needs only pay close attention to events and things in order to read their inner meaning.

> In Qabalistic writing there is much emphasis on the numerical identity of הטבע, [he-tebah](/keys/HTBO), as this word is usually written, Heh being a definite article, with אלהים, [Elohim](/keys/ALHIM). The idea suggested is that the creative powers are identical with "nature." To separate nature from God is a fundamental error. Religionists are prone to fall into this false notion as well as materialists. ([mitowb](/keys/MTVB) מטוב good, better; the right conduct) see [477](477), [86](86).

---

### [Mehlek ha-kabode](/keys/MLK.HKBVD) - מלך הכבוד
> King of Glory. [Psalm 24:8-10](http://biblehub.com/psalms/24-8.htm). In verse 1, the Psalmist asks *"Who then is the King of Glory?. The Lord strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle. Lift up your heads, O ye gates; even lift them up, ye ever lasting doors; and the King of Glory shall come in. The Lord of Hosts, He is the King of Glory."* see [525](525), [89](89), [26](26).

> The Lord of Hosts is יהוה צבאות, [IHVH Tzaboth](/keys/IHVH.TzBAVTH), is the divine name assigned to Netzach. כבוד [Kabode](/keys/KBVD) Glory has for its fundamental meaning weight or ponderability. with the definite article Heh, הכבוד is [37](37), the value of יחידה [Yekhidah](/keys/IChIDh), the One Self, seated in the White Brilliance of [Kether](/keys/KThR). (Kether, כתר, is the concentration, at a radiant point of the power of [Ain Suph Aur](/keys/AIN.SVP.AVR), אין סוף אור, the limitless light). see [90](90), [414](414).

> In [Psalm 24:8](http://biblehub.com/psalms/24-8.htm), the King of Glory is also described as *"The Lord strong and mighty."* see [333](333), [360](360), [90](90).

---

### [tzevah Jehovah](/keys/TzVH.IHVH) - צוה יהוה
> the Lord commanded. [Psalm 133:3](http://biblehub.com/psalms/133-3.htm). This occurs in the psalm celebrating brotherly unity, familiar to Freemasons. the deeper occult meaning has to do with the precious ointment, שמן הטוב [shemen ha-towb](/keys/ShMN.HTVB), flowing down Aaron's Head, and Qabalist interpret this as being a reference to the Holy influence through the paths of the Tree of Life. That influence is הכבוד [ha-kabode](/keys/HKBVD), the glory (also named מזלא, [Mezla](/keys/MZLA)).

> צוה means: to command or constitute, may be read צ וה, Tzaddi and Heh. Its meaning: to command, to constitute, is allied to the special mode of consciousness represented by Heh and the sign Aries, the Constituting Intelligence. see [32](32), [78](78), [10](10).

---

### [Poial](/keys/PVIAL) - פויאל
> *"God who sustains the universe."* 56th Shemhamphorash, angel of 5 of Pentacles. 276° - 280° THEMESO. May 14, July 25, October 5, December 16, Febuary 26. 6:20 6:40 PM. One of the 72 angels of the Zodiac. [Psalm 145:14](http://biblehub.com/psalms/145-14.htm): *"The Lord (IHVH) upholdeth all that fall, and raiseth up all those that are bowed down."* To obtain what one requires. Rules renoun, fortune and philosophy. person born esteemed by all the world for his modesty, his moderation and his agreeable humor; he make his fortune by his talents and his conduct.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [mysterium](/latin?word=mysterium) (Lt)
> a secret or mystery.

---

### [sapientia vera](/latin?word=sapientia+vera) (Lt)
> true wisdom. Observe that the first of these 2 words is the number 86, relating it to [Elohim](/keys/ALHIM). see [381](381) (3x127: "I will instruct thee" [Psalm 32:8](http://biblehub.com/psalms/145-14.htm)).

---

### [contemplatio](/latin?word=contemplatio) (Lt)
Contemplating. See [112](112).

---

### [septentrio](/latin?word=septentrio) (Lt)
North. [septentrio](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=septentrio): Big/Little Dipper (s./pl.); north, north regions/wind; brooch w/7 stones;

---

### [neophytus](/latin?word=neophytus) (Lt)
[Neophytus](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=neophytus): Neophyte, beginner. "Newly Planted" (of newly converted Christians). Name of Grade 0=0 in the Rosicrucian system of Initiation.

---

### See Also:

- [10](10)
- [Bible Wheel: 127](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=127)

