## 129 - One Hundred Twenty-Nine
> (3x43)

---

### [IHVH Hu ha-Elohim](/keys/IHVH.HVA.HALHIM) - יהוה הוא האלהים
> "Jehovah He is God" [Deuteronomy 4:35](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/4-35.htm). (I.R.Q. 1057).

---

### [edenah](/keys/ODNH) - עדנה
> Pleasure. [Genesis 18:12](http://biblehub.com/genesis/18-12.htm): *"Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I am waxed old shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also?"* Refers to Sarah asking whether she will have "pleasure," i.e. bear a child.

---

### [ovunag](/keys/OVNG) - עונג
> delight, pleasure. This pleasure is of (de) the light or delightful, because the new creature is literally born out of the light in the heart. see [124](124).

---

### [F.B.M.P.A.](/keys/VBMPA) - ו:ב:מ:פ:א
> Initials of Frater B., listed in the Fama as Fra. F.B.M.P.A., [pictor et architectus](/latin?word=pictor+et+architectus) (painter and architect). [Note: the F in German corresponds to Hebrew Vav]. Divinity paints the artistry of life with mental imagery and is the architect of our salvation. see [2](2) ([Beth](/keys/B)).

---

### [nawtao](/keys/NTO) - נטע
> to set in, to plant; to fix, fasten.

> - [Genesis 8:20](http://biblehub.com/genesis/8-20.htm): *"And Noah began to till the ground; and he planted a vineyard."*
> -  also in [Isaiah 51:16](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/51-16.htm): *"And I have put my words in your mouth, and I have covered you in the shadow of my hand, because I stretched forth the heavens and laid the foundations of the earth, and said to Zion, you are my people."*
> -  Also נטע (netao). planting, plant, plantation. [Isaiah 17:11](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/17-11.htm): *"On the day that you plant them, they shall put forth blossoms, and in the morning your seed shall flourish, but the harvest shall be a ruin in the day of grief and of desperate sorrow."*
> -  And in [Job 14:9](http://biblehub.com/job/14-9.htm): *"Yet through the scent of water it will bud and bring forth leaves like a plant."*

---

### [Haikal Gonah](/keys/HIKL.GVNH) - היכל גונה
> Place of Serenity; heavenly mansion corresponding to Hod on the Tree of Life. see [65](65), [15](15).

---

### [Malewk ha-Gawal](/keys/MLAK.HGAL) - מלאך הגאל
> Angel of Redemption. The devil becomes Uriel when we see him as he really is - The Angel of Light, or Lucifer (Light-bearer).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [in Monte Abiegno](/latin?word=in+monte+abiegno) (Lt)
> In Mount Abiegnus. In the mountain of Firwood [Secret Symbols Page 18]. see [72](72), [125](125).

---

### [Lumen Naturae](/latin?word=Lumen+Naturae) (Lt)
> Light of Nature.

---

### [Laboratorium](/latin?word=Laboratorium) (Lt)
> Laboratory. The human organism, where the alchemical Great Work is performed. see [250](250), [121](121) Latin.

---

### [materia ultima](/latin?word=materia+ultima) (Lt)
> The final or highest substance. refers to the first matter. [Secret Symbols, p. 46] see [61](61) (materia).

---

### [aqua permanens](/latin?word=aqua+permanens) (Lt)
> permanent water. the universal mercury. see [36](36) (aqua), permanens ([93](93)).

---

### [magnesia catholica](/latin?word=magnesia+catholica) (Lt)
> universal seed. *"He is the one perfect savior of all imperfect bodies and men, the true heavenly physician of the soul, the eternal light that lints all men (Isaiah 60, John 1), the universal remedy of all diseases, the true spiritual panacea... He is also the true catholic magnesia, or universal seed of the world, of whom, through whom, and to whom are all things in heaven and upon earth-the alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, says the Lord that is, and was, and is to come, the almighty [Apocalypse 1]"* [[Hermetic Museum I, p. 98](https://archive.org/stream/b24927363_0001#page/98)]

---

### English Gematria:

- [Fraternity](/english?word=Fraternity) *([Fama Intro p.19](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n19), [p.20](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n20))*

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
