## 131 - One Hundred Thirty-One
> (prime)

---

### [Samael](/keys/SMAL) - סמאל
[Samael](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samael) - "Venom of God", "Poison of God", or "Blindness of God". An archangel in Talmudic lore.

> Samiel, Samael. An "immortal angel of God" attributed to Jupiter [Grouped with Michael, Gabriel and other spell-binding angels]. Also linked with unbalanced forces. ("Sam" means poison- Samiel is attributed to Geburah as the ruler of its Qlippoth); angle of death and order of Seraphim (fiery serpents). [Dictionary of Angels, p. 256] Order of evil demons (Qlippoth), Applied also to the chief of all evil spirits equalivalant to Satan. Its fundamental meaning is "embroilment", when negative self-conscious produces environmental conditions and human relations adverse to harmony. The cure is to get rid of the delusions of separateness and link oneself with the higher powers, as does the magician. Godwin gives; angel of death; prince of demons; demon prince of fire; Qlippoth of Hod; arch demon corresponding to Chokmah (Crowley). see [626](626), [2080](2080), [8](8).

---

### [amatz](/keys/AMTz) - אמץ
> courage, valor, strength. One of the 4 occult maxims (to dare). Aleph, the fiery quality of the Life-breath (Rauch) shows that the magician must have a degree of audacity in his psychic make-up-audacity in the face of uncertainty and peril. Mem, daring is the result of a reasoned surrender to life itself. Tzaddi, magical courage is the fruit of conscious possession of internal powers via ceaseless meditation which identifies him with the source of these power (see [346](346), [474](474), [70](70)).

---

### [ahnawah](/keys/ONVH) - ענוה
> humility, meekness; mildness, gentleness; condescension. The opposite of courage.

---

### [onawh](/keys/ONVH) - ענוה
> marital duty, cohabitation; time; period of twelve astronomical hours; season, period; trouble, suffering, sorrow; sight or affliction of the eye. The metathesis of ONVH. It is the appearance of things (Ayin) modified by intuition (Vav) which brings change (Nun) and clear vision (Heh). this is marred by "embroilment".

---

### [nayeph](/keys/NAP) - נאף
> to commit adultery with; to worship idols. also: NAP (nayuph) adultery, prostitution, misuse of reproductive energy (Nun) perverting spirit (Aleph) in action (Peh).

---

### [eneph](/keys/ANP) - אנף
> angry, wraith; to be angry, ("he was angry") Spirit (Aleph) working through reproductive activity and change (Nun) in action (Peh). also ANP countenance, anger reddens and flushes the face, and produces courage and strength.

---

### [sassia](/keys/SSIA) - ססיא
> Lesser angel governing triplicity by night of Virgo. this implies a subconscious use of the uniting powers of Yod, by self-consciousness suggestion (Mercury). This involves the industrious use of the powers of discrimination.

---

### [awnahph](/keys/APN) - אפן
> to turn the wheel; to systematize, classify, arrange; to break on the wheel, torture. The metathesis of ANP. It is spirit (Aleph) working through activity (Peh) to transform appearance. This may be based on some systematic or painful approach. also: APN (ophen) manner, way, plan, style. The unfoldment of the above.

---

### [ahphayim](/keys/APIM) - אפים
> nose, nostrils; face, anger. The influence of Sammael on the above, reflected in flaring nostrils.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Koma](/greek?word=koma) (Gr) -  κομα
> (Kapa, Omicron, Mu, Alpha) "has long hair".

> Omicron says that this word *"suggests the ideas of joy and richness: fullness of generative power: or productiveness from an underlying or preceding condition. "Hair", together with its variants "wool" and "horn" is a widely used symbol, indicating super-vitality or, at times, divine intelligence: e.g. the radiant coiffure of the sun gods. A synonym for koma is khlo phorei: the word khlo (or phlo) is used by St. Paul ('it was made clear to me things of [my] Chloe) [[1 Corinthians 1:11](http://biblehub.com/1_corinthians/1-11.htm)] with reference to his own super developed psychic powers."* [Letters from Paulos, pp. 256-257]

---

### [gluten aqulaw](/latin?word=gluten+aqulaw) (Lt)
> Eagle's glue.

---

### [Deus nobiscum](/latin?word=Deus+nobiscum) (Lt)
> God with us; part of an old Rosicrucian phrase. *Deus nobiscum; pax profunda* (God with us; peace profound). see [251](251), [120](120), [329](329) (Latin) Note that Deus = [45](45) (אדם, Adam) + nobiscum = [86](86) (אלהים, Elohim) = 131.

---

### [concentratum](/latin?word=concentratum) (Lt)
"together in the middle." From (con-): "together; completely, strongly, forcibly, violently", and (centratum): "central, in middle/center". [[LexiLogos/NotreDame](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=concentratum)]

---

### See Also:

- [5](5)

