## 144 - One Hundred Forty-Four
> (12x12). 144 cubits (196 feet) is a measure of a man [Revelations 21:17](http://biblehub.com/revelation/21-17.htm). see [2075](2075).

---

### [Abi Gibeon](/keys/ABI.GBOVN) - אבי גבעון
> "Father of Gibeon."

---

### [Qedem](/keys/QDM) - קדם
> Ancient days, primordial heavens; Anterius; the East; days first of the first, front (opposite to back). Note the relation to east, the source of light, and DM ([44](44)) blood, the carrier of consciusness. The connectiong agent is Qoph, assigned to the Corporeal Intelligence and to alchemical mutiplication. see [44](44), [100](100), [793](793), [259](259); [460](460) (Greek). Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.670] gives: oriens seu anterius, and say the supreme crown is thus called as it is before the created world. A long discussin follows.

---

### [qadem](/keys/QDM) - קדם
> before.

---

### [qadam](/keys/QDM) - קדם
> to precede, come before, be in advance; to excel, surpass.

---

### [sandal](/keys/SNDL) - סנדל
> a sandal, shoe, horseshoe, a flat fish; abortion.

---

### [yedonei](/keys/IDONI) - ידעני
> a wizard, sorcerer; a magician. Also (per lexicon): familiar spirit; soothsayer.

---

### [wayhi-peleg](/keys/VIHI-PLG) - ויהי־פלג
and lived Peleg.

- [Genesis 11:18](https://biblehub.com/genesis/11-18.htm): *"**And Peleg lived** thirty years, and begat Reu"*
- [Genesis 11:19](https://biblehub.com/genesis/11-19.htm): *"**And Peleg lived** after he begat Reu two hundred and nine years, and begat sons and daughters"*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Heh Kardia](/greek?word=h+kardia) (Gr) - η καρδια
> the heart (see [136](136)).

---

### [Theion](/greek?word=theion) (Gr) - θειον
> deity. Theion is neutral of Orlos, the divine being, deity. in epic Greek it meant "Brimstone" (Latin sulfur). see [720](720). Note that in alchemical symbolism Sulphur stands for activity and self-consciousness, and in Qabalah is linked to Chokmah, root of Life-force. see [693](693).

> *"Daily use, moreover, blunts its indwelling powers, namely Sulphur, or its soul, and it is continually becoming mingled and defiled with other things that are foreign to its nature. Hence it becomes daily more and more unfit to be subject of art. You must, therefore, seek to obtain gold which has a pure, living spirit, and of which the Sulphur is not yet weakened and sophisticated, but is pure and clear (by passing through antimony, or by the heaven and sphere of Saturn, and being purged of all its defilement): otherwise the first substance, being spiritual and ethereal, will not combine with it."* [Hermetic Museum I, p.81]

---

### [Abram](/greek?word=abram) (Gr) - Αβραμ
> Abraham, the father of Israel. see [248](248). Spelled ααμ in [Hebrews 11:8](http://biblehub.com/hebrews/11-8.htm): *"In faith Abraham was obedient, he being called to go forth into the place which he was in future to receive an inheritance; and he went forth, not knowing where he was going."*

---

### [heh-eklogeh](/greek?word=h-eklogh) (Gr) - η εκλογη
> "the chosen"; the elect of God. [Romans 11:7](http://biblehub.com/romans/11-7.htm) *"What then? The thing Israel earnestly seeks; this he did not obtain; but the chosen obtained it, and the rest were blinded."*

---

### See Also:

- [9](9)
- [Bible Wheel: 144](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=144)
