## 154 - One Hundred Fifty-Four (2x7x11)

---

### [Elohim Khayim](/keys/ALHIM.ChIIM) - אלהים חיים
> Elohim of Lives, Living God. [Deuteronomy 5:26](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/5-26.htm): *"For who is there of all flesh, who has heard the voice of the living God speaking out of the midst of he fire, as we have, and lived?"*

> Writing about alchemical silver the Aesch Mezareph [VII, p.40] says: *"To this place ([Pau](/keys/POV), פעו, "brightness", #[156](156)) belongs another surname, i.e. Elohim Chaiim, as though it were called Living Gold, because Elohim and Gold denote the same measure. [Pau is the royal city of Tiphareth, the King] but so this water is called, because it is the mother and principle of living Gold: for all other kinds of Gold are thought to be dead; this only excepted."* see [158](158), [504](504), [149](149).

---

### [IHVH Elohinoo IHVH](/keys/IHVH.ALHINV.IHVH) - יהוה אלהינו יהוה
> Jehovah, our God Jehovah. [Deuteronomy 6:4](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/6-4.htm): *"Hear O Israel: the Lord [IHVH] our God is one Lord--the only Lord."* (Amplified). *"Hear O Israel! the Lord is our God, the Lord is one!"* (New American Standard).

---

### [olahm ha-bah](/keys/OVLM.HBA) - עולם הבא
> the world to come, future world. According to some, means the same as Gan Eden, the Garden of Eden. It is called "the world to come" in relation to the idea that man in his dream of separation must consider his restoration to the paradisiacal state as an event which is in the future, or "to come." The world to come is the New Heaven and Earth. see [52](52), [124](124), [177](177), [714](714).

---

### [lechem va-yahyin](/keys/LChM.VIIN) - לחם ויין
> Bread and wine. [Genesis 14:18](http://biblehub.com/genesis/14-18.htm). Melchizedek "brought forth" (made manifest) bread and wine. The bread symbolizes the Life-power as substance. The wine is the same as "Blood of the Grape," and is the animating energy. Both the substance and the animating energy are expressions of the Life-power, which is Jehovah, our God Jehovah. see [683](683), [36](36), [252](252), [315](315), [224](224), [314](314), [29](29), [714](714), [1364](1364), [1352](1352) (Greek), [1346](1346).

---

### [ha-opan ha-gad](/keys/HAVPN.HGD) - האופן הגד
> The wheel of fortune. Note that גד is the Babylonian name of Jupiter, meaning "good fortune." see [47](47).

---

### [Abiaseph](/keys/ABIASP) - אביאסף
> "Father of Gatherings."

---

### [chamah ayin li](/keys/ChMH.AIN.LI) - חמה אין לי
> "fury is not in me." [Isaiah 27:4](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/27-4.htm): *"Fury is not in me: who would set the briers and thorns against me and thorns against me in battle? I would go through the, I would burn them together."*

> According to Thomas Troward, *"If we once realize the great truth stated in [[Psalm 18:26](http://biblehub.com/psalms/18-26.htm)] and [[2 Samuel 22:27](http://biblehub.com/2_samuel/22-27.htm)], that the divine universal spirit always becomes to us exactly the correlative of our own principle of action and that it does so naturally be the law of subjective mind, the it must become clear that it can have no vindictive power in it, or as the Bible expresses it, 'fury is not in me.'".* [Bible Mystery and Bible meaning, p. 236]

> [Psalm 18:26](http://biblehub.com/psalms/18-26.htm): *"With the pure you will show yourself pure; and with the crooked you show yourself shrewd."* [2 Samuel 22:37](http://biblehub.com/2_samuel/22-37.htm) is identical except it uses the word "unsavory" for "shrewd".

> Paul Case says this phrase = 154 = [elohim chaiim](/keys/ALHIM.ChIIM), אלהים חיים ("Living God").

> see above, [Ezekiel 18:29-32](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=ezekiel%2018%3A29-32&version=ESV): *"Yet says the house of Israel, the way of the Lord is not equal. O house of Israel, are not my ways equal? Are not your ways unequal? (30) therefore I will Judge you, O house of Israel, everyone according to his ways, says the Lord God. Repent, and turn yourself from all your transgressions; so iniquity shall not be your ruin. (31) Cast away from you all your transgressions, whereby you have transgressed; and make you a new heart and a new spirit: for why will you die, O house of Israel? (32) For I have no pleasure in the death of him who dies, says the Lord God: so turn yourself, and live."*

---

### [Tzidon](/keys/TzIDN) - צידן
Sidon, eldest son of [Canaan](/keys/QNON). From [tzud](/keys/TzVD) "to hunt." Also a Phoenician city on the Mediterranean coast. see [555](555). [genesis 10:15](https://biblehub.com/genesis/10-15.htm): *"And Canaan begat **Sidon** his firstborn, and Heth"*

---

## Latin/Greek:

---

### [In centro solis](/latin?word=In+centro+solis) (Lt)
> in the center of the sun. In the Rosicrucian Confessio, in a context which promises "all the goods which nature hath dispersed in every part of the earth" to those who are willing to cooperate in the Work of God. He who cooperates consenters his desire with the Great Center, and "all that the Father hath is mine" expresses this consciousness.

---

### [Rosa Jesus est](/latin?word=Rosa+Jesus+est) (Lt)
> The rose is Jesus. "Jesus" is to be understood as meaning the same as in "Jesus Mihi Omnia" ([150](150)). The rose is the flower of Venus, and when it s centered on a cross of 6 squares, formed by the opening-out of a cube, we have the true emblem of the rose-cross. It is a symbol of the perfect coordination of the desires of man (the rose) with the basic pattern of creation. Essentially, this is what is meant also by: In centro solis. see [67](67), [47](47) Latin.

---

### [Vicarius filii Dei](/latin?word=Vicarius+filii+Dei) (Lt)
> Vicar of the son of God. Jesus is the earthly representative of the Solar Logos. [This numeration is by Latin Cabala simplex, see [666](666), for traditional numeration; [666](666) is another "solar" number]. see also [326](326) for esoteric meaning of the name "Jesus".

---

### English Gematria:

- [prognosticate](/english?word=prognosticate) *([Fama Intro p.12](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n12))*
- [present Work](/english?word=present+Work) *([Fama Intro p.12](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n12))*

---

### See Also:

- [10](10)
- [1](1)

