## 156 - One Hundred Fifty-Six
> (3x4x13) The perimeter of a right angle triangle whose sides are 39, 52 and 65 and the area of 104.

---

### [Joseph](/keys/IVSP) - יוסף
> Multiplier, addition; Old Testement name. Refers to the alchemical doctrine that the stone has powers of multiplication. Usually Joseph is attributed to Yesod, but always to Yesod as the generative power of Tiphareth.

> As spelled in [Deuteronomy 33:13-17](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=deuteronomy%2033%3A13-17&version=WEB;OJB). *"And of Joseph he said: blessed of the Lord (יהוה) be his land, for the precious things of heaven, for the dew, and for the deep that coucheth beneath. And for precious things of the fruits of the sun, and for the precious things of the growth of the moon, and for the chief (things) of the ancient mountains, and for the precious things of the everlasting hills, and for the precious things of the earth and its fulness and for the goodwill of Him that dwells in the bush; let [blessing] come upon the head of Joseph, and upon the crown of head of him that was separate [and prince] among his brothers. Like a firstling young bull his majesty is, and his horns like the horns of the wild ox; with them he shall push the peoples, all of them, to the ends of the earth; and they are the ten thousands of Ephraim, and they are the thousands of Manasseh."*

---

### [ehben echad ve-lo ehben](/keys/ABN.AChD.VLA.ABN) - אבן אחד ולא אבן
> *"One stone and no stone".* Alchemical description (reference) of the first matter.

---

### [Adam Olai](/keys/ADM.OLAI) - אדם עלאי
> "High Man". The celestial or ideal man. The Life-power's perfect image of itself. see [150](150), [151](151), [161](161), [1496](1496).

---

### [Ohel Moade](/keys/AHL.MVOD) - אהל מועד
> Tabernacle of the Congregation. In [Exodus 33:7](http://biblehub.com/exodus/33-7.htm) translated "tent of meeting." In [Leviticus 1:1](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/1-1.htm) as the place where Tetragrammaton called to Moses. Refers also to the fact that he who finds the hidden stone enters the Holy of Holies or Adytum. Where he becomes aware of his affiliation or communion with the congregation of those who know (see [570](570), [36](36), [120](120)).

---

### [ehpeh](/keys/APOH) - אפעה
> a hissing reptile, adder, viper. [Job 20:16](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=job%2020%3A16&version=WEB;OJB) and [Isaiah 30:6, 59:5](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Isaiah+30%3A6%2C+59%3A5&version=WEB;OJB). Refers to the serpent-power, but whose activity without control is poison to those who use it.

---

### [Kamotz, Kamauts](/keys/KMVTz) - כמוץ
> Angel of 1st decanate of Scorpio. see [45](45), [270](270). This decanate is ruled by Mars.

---

### [Hasaniel](/keys/HSNIAL) - הסניאל
> Angle of Hod in Briah. Has to do with the power of intellect (self-consciousness) in creative imagery.

---

### [Nahul](/keys/NOVL) - נעול
> enclosed; shut up. See the [Song of Solomon 4:12](http://biblehub.com/songs/4-12.htm), where this adjective is combined with the word גן [Garden](/keys/GN), and גל [spring](/keys/GL), water-source. גן refers to Binah, the mother, and to Malkuth, the Bride. The garden is the same as עדן כבוד, the [Eden of Glory](/keys/ODN.KBVD).

---

### [Eden Kabode](/keys/ODN.KBVD) - עדן כבוד
> Eden of Glory. Applied to the [16th Path](16) of Vav.

---

### [Ayin IHVH](/keys/OIN.IHVH) - עין יהוה
> the Eye of Jehovah. Refers to the 3rd eye which it is the purpose of alchemy to rouse to full activity. see Zion and [Job 28:2](http://biblehub.com/job/28-2.htm). *"copper is molten out of the stone."* The Hebrew word of copper is closely related to the word for serpent see [409](409).

> In the Macrocosm, the eye of יהוה is said to be in every place. It is the all-seeing eye of Rosicrucian and Freemasonry, the eye of Shiva, the transformer, the eye of Horus, the son of the Egyptian Holy Family. see [422](422), [150](150).

> In Qabalah, the eye of Arik Anpin, the vast countenance. To it refers the New Testament saying: *"If thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light."*

> *"עין יהוה = ציון, so that whenever it is found it represents "the eye of Tetragrammaton" which "is upon them that fear him" [[Psalm 33:18](http://biblehub.com/psalms/33-18.htm)]. Here it is to be noted that the preposition אל, translated 'upon' in the authorized version means also near, with, or in, so that the passage just quoted might be translated 'the eye of Tetragrammaton is in his fearers.' Moreover, עין is also spring, fountain, well = [pegehs](/greek?word=Phghs) (πηγής), used in LXX [Septuagint](https://www.blueletterbible.org/lxx/gen/16/7/s_16007) to translate עין thus the 'fountain of Tetragrammaton' = the source of eternal life mentioned by Jesus when he spoke to the woman of Samaria."* [Troward on Psalms: Psalm 129, 169]

---

### [Zion](/keys/TzIVN) - ציון
> The Holy of Holies. The mountain top in Jerusalem (abode of peace) where contact with God is made. This refers to the awakening of the Brain center around the Pineal Gland (Mercury inner holy planet) to experience a higher mode of consciousness. [צין, [150](150), "to glitter, to burn, to glow: the power from Kether. Note Zion in Assiah is the seat of Yekhidah (Kether in the physical body)] Also dryness, sign-post, monument, quote. The east hill of Jerusalem on which the temple stood. (Mt. Moriah, sometimes mentioned as the site of the temple, is simply a peak of the hill to which the name ציון is given). Thus Zion was the foundation supporting the temple. Hence the Zohar (Lesser Holy Assembly, page 743) identifies Zion as the feminine aspect of Yesod, the Foundation. It says *"this is the feminine secret part, and in the bride (Malkuth) is called the womb."* Also parched ground, desert. see [158](158), [750](750), [513](513), [569](569), [1060](1060) (Greek), [74](74) (Latin).

---

### [tsalol, tzalol](/keys/TzLVL) - צלול
> clear, lucid. In [Judges 7:13](http://biblehub.com/judges/7-13.htm) it is translated *"A cake of Barley."* It is used as a symbol in a dream (ללול). Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.21] gives: limpid blood.

---

### [qiyam, qiyoom](/keys/QIVM) - קיום
> permanence, duration, existence, confirmation. Relates of alchemical Water. see [184](184), [744](744).

---

### [oof, ooph](/keys/OVP) - עוף
> to cover with wings, to fly, fly away; to flicker. עוף: fowl, bird, winged creature. This word is used in [Genesis 1:20](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-20.htm): *"And Elohim said 'let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creature that has life, and fowl [birds] that may fly, above the earth in the open firmament of heaven."*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"עוף, fowl... this expression, which depends still upon the verb ישרצו", shall spring forth, and which is connected with the substantive המים, the waters, proves, as the authors of the Samaritan version and the Chaldiac targum have very well perceived, that Moses regarded the waters as specially charged with furnishing the first elements of vital movement to reptilian and flying animals. The root רץ, of which is spoke above and the one now in question, are both linked to the same motive principle designated by the root שר; but whereas, by רץ, should be understood, a laborious movement attached to the earth, by עוף, should be seen, an easy, soaring movement in the air. The one is heavy and rapid, the other light and swift. Both receive existence from the vital principle brought forth by the waters."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.50-51](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/50)]

> According to Westcott, this is one of three names for 'bird' in alchemy, which generally means sublimations. In the Aesch Mezareph [III, p.25]: *"a beast with 4 wings each like a bird was given power over the lion and the bear that he may extract their gluten or blood."* see [376](376), [480](480).

---

### [pau](/keys/POV) - פעו
> "screaming". Name of King and City of Edom ([Genesis 36:34](http://biblehub.com/genesis/36-34.htm)). In the Zohar, Edom is connected with unbalanced forces.

> The Aesch Mezareph [VII, p.40] says: *"But that thou mayest know, that Tiphareth, of the degree of Geburah, is understood; know thou, that number being added to the whole, is also contained in Isaac [#[208](208)], which is like manner is of the classics of Gold. The City of that King [Tiphareth] is called Pegno [pau], brightness, from its splendor, according to [[Deuteronomy 33:2](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/33-2.htm)] which name, and the name Joseph (by which Yesod is meant), have the same number, 156. That you may know that [argent vive](/latin?word=argent+vive) is required to the work; and that the royal beauty doth reside out of this splendid city."*

> [Deuteronomy 33:2](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/33-2.htm): *"And he said, the Lord came from Sinai, and rose up from Seir unto them; he shined forth from mount Paran, and he came with ten thousand of saints: from his right hand went a fiery law for them."*

---

### [Babylon](/keys/BABALON) - באבאלען
> "confusion"; name of the city in the Apocalypse, connected with the fallen woman. Variant spelling; see [34](34), [1285](1285). The native name means "gate of God."

---

### [qanah](/keys/QNAH) - קנאה
Jealousy; envy; zeal. [Zechariah 1:14](http://biblehub.com/zechariah/1-14.htm): *"Thus saith the LORD of hosts; I am jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion with a great jealousy."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [centrum naturae](/latin?word=centrum+naturae) (Lt)
> center of nature. Refers to Tiphareth as the seat of the human ego. The Ego is the Center of every person's universe. With the opening of the 3rd eye, the centrum naturae becomes for man what it is for God. It is if the centers of 2 circles where make to coincide. Then the personal circle corresponds perfectly to the divine. The radius of the personal circle is finite; that of the divine circle is infinite. Their centers are one.

> *"I have sought; I have found; I have often purified; and I have joined together; I have matured it: then the golden tincture has followed, which is called the center of nature (hence so many opinions, so may books, so may parables). It is the remedy, I openly declare it, for all metals, and for all sick persons. The solution of the god."* [Hermetic Museum I, p.55]

> Case: centrum naturae = 156 = ועף = עיון = עין יהוה.

> Jacob Boemme writes: *"Further, we are to inquire concerning to other will of the enteral father which is called God, which in the center of its heart desires light and the manifestations of the triad in wisdom. This will is set or directed towards the centrum naturae, for through nature must the splendor of majesty arise."* [Six Theosophic Points, I 50, p.25]

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
