## 157 - One Hundred Fifty-Seven
> (prime)

---

### [mopeleh](/keys/MVPLA) - מופלא
> Admirable or Wonderful. The 1st Path of Kether. Variant of Pehleh [PLA]. see [111](111), [507](507), [589](589), [620](620), [876](876).

---

### [dimdoomi chammah](/keys/DMDVMI.ChMH) - דמדומי חמה
> the setting of the sun. A hint that the end of one cycle is also the beginning of another.

---

### [nizzak, nizaq](/keys/NZQ) - נזק
> to suffer loss. In relation to the Ace of Cups this refers to the limitation that the perfection of the One Life must suffer in order to begin a cycle of manifestation. It is referred to in the Bible as the *"Lamb, slain from the foundation of the world."* Why the perfect should enter such limitations is beyond human reason. In [Esther 7:4](https://biblehub.com/esther/7-4.htm) *"For we are sold, and my people, to be slain, to be put to the sword, and to perish. But if we had been sold merely as bondsmen and bondswomen, would not have held my tongue, but the enemy would not hesitate to cause loss [BNZQ] to the king."*

---

### [neqaebah](/keys/NQBH) - נקבה
> female, yoni. Here is a reminder that behind all masculine representations of the Life-power is hidden the feminine aspect also. The feminine aspect is the "Nature" which Boehme calls the wrath or fire-spirit. [The masculine is NQB pipe, hole, perforation and plural NQBIM, orifices, organs of elimination].  In [Genesis 5:2](https://biblehub.com/genesis/5-2.htm) *"Male and female he created them; and Elohim blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the day when they were created."*

---

### [zawqawn](/keys/ZQN) - זקן
> the beard; lingam. The influence (Mezla) which descends from the first Sephirah through all the others. It is called "the beard of truth" in S.D. II:1. [Also ZQN an old man; elder; scholar; grandfather].

---

### [zahaef](/keys/ZOP) - זעף
> anger, wrath. "God created all things..out of eternal nature, the fury or wrath, and out of his love. By means of which the wrath or nature was pacified. The wrath (Fire) is the root of all things and the origin of all Life. In it is the cause of all strength and power, and from it are issuing all wonders." [Jacob Boehme]. This seeming contradiction between wrath and wonderful indicates the transformation made in the force (Chaos) as it passes through it points of Primal Will (Kether). ZOP is one of the alchemical names of the red stone, also called GPRITh ADM (Gophrith Adam), etc. It is also called Ram, Mars (red-fire, red sulphur, etc.) Also: ZOP angry, irritated, ill-tempered; ZOP to cry, cry out, call; ZOP to be angry. see [785](785), [738](738), [693](693).

---

### [kenaz](/keys/QNZ) - קנז
> Godwin gives: "Kenaz, duke of Edom, associated with Netzach. This is related to Venus and thus to unbalanced desires and emotions. [Genesis 36:15](https://biblehub.com/genesis/36-15.htm): *"These were the chiefs among Esau's descendants: the sons of Eliphaz the first born of Esau: chiefs Teman, Omar, Zeph, Kenaz."*

---

## Latin/Greek:

---

### [matrix corpus](/latin?word=matrix+corpus) (Lt)
> mold of the body, or womb of the body [Secret Symbols page 27]. Refers to the first path as the womb of forms, containing the archetypal molds or patterns of all forms of embodied existence. Related to the Ace of Cups.

---

### See Also:

- [19](19)
- [10](10)
- [1](1)
- [BibleWheel: 157](https://www.biblewheel.com/GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=157)
