## 16 - Sixteen
4x4. The number of hidden paths on the Tree of Life.

---

### [The Sixteenth Path](/keys/V)
> *"The sixteenth path (Vav, joining Chokmah to Chesed) is called the Triumphant and Eternal Intelligence because it is the delight of glory, the glory of Ain, the No-Thing, veiling the name of Him, the Fortunate One, and it is called also the Garden of Eden, prepared for the compassionate."* [The Book of Formation].

Conferred by knowledge of the 16th path:

> *"Vav - He knows the reason of the past, present, and future.* [Eliphas Levi, Transcendental Magic]

> *"I am the eternal intelligence, triumphing over all changes of name and form, sowing all problems of substance in justice, love and truth."* [Meditations of the Paths of Wisdom].

I am the Triumphant and Eternal Intelligence, revealing the mysteries of the One Truth so that paradise may reign once more.

---

### [Key 16 - The Tower](/keys/P)

- [Peh](60) (פ): The Mouth as the organ of speech.
- The Exciting (or Active) Intelligence. [The 27th Path](27)
- Awakening
- Grace and Sin
- Mars
- Red / C-natural

---

### [Azob](/keys/AZVB) - אזוב
[Hyssop](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyssopus_officinalis). Purgation or purification. Symbolizes the cleansing which comes from regulation (see [4](4), [64](64), 34, 136).

---

### [Havah](/keys/HVH) - הוה
> Eve. Wife of Adam (Humanity). A symbol of mother nature, or subconsciousness, the manifesting power of the cosmos. see [1577](1577), [207](207). Literally, "to life, to be". originally "to breath". Alternate Spelling. See [19](19).

> Also הוה: to be, to exist, mischief, ruin.

---

### [achaz](/keys/AChZ) - אחז
> to apprehend, to lay hold of, to grasp, to handle, to fasten, to gird. Also to sieze, cluth; to dazzle, delude. Refers to the grasp of cosmic laws which is based upon measurement. Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"All ideas of adhesion, apprehension, agglomeration, union, possession, heritage." [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.291]*

---

### [gabvoh](/keys/GBVH) - גבוה
> exacted, elevated, high. Refers to the idea of domination and authority derived from grasp of cosmic laws.

---

### [hia](/keys/HIA) - היא
> The personal pronoun SHE. Existence manifest through Prakariti (Isis) or Nature. The Uniting Intelligence (Gimel) is the most importanat means of purification. it links personal consciousnes to the highest plance of being. It is the wisdom personified in proverbs as a woman. Its full exercise enables us to realise the identity of the self in man with universal being. see הוא, [12](12).

---

### [zog](/keys/ZVG) - זוג
> to enclose, or, like, equal to. Refers to the essential identity of all manifestations of the One Life. Also: to pair or match, pair of sicissors; married couple. With different vowel points: bell, rattle.

---

### [ehud](/keys/AHVD) - אהוד
> conjunction, union. Also powerful, strong or "the one", "the incomparable." *[Judges 3:15](http://biblehub.com/judges/3-15.htm) "But when the Children of Isreal cired to the Lord, the Lord raised them up a deliverer, Ehud the son of Gera, a Benjemite, a man left-handed: and by him the childen of isreal sent a present ot Eblon the King of Moad."* see [13](13).

---

### [Aboz](/keys/ABVZ) - אבוז
> perdition; the 2nd hell, corresponding to Hod [Godwin].

---

### [Chebo](/keys/ChBV) - חבו
> 68th name of shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 2nd Quinance [6-10°] of Cancer. see [31](31), [1525](1525).

---

### [Chach](/keys/ChCh). - חח
> "Hook." brooch, ring, Plural in [Ezekiel 29:4](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/29-4.htm) [You say, 'the nile is mine; I made it for myself'] "But I will put hooks in your jaws and make the fish of your streams stick to your jaws. I will pull you out from among the streams, with all the fish sticking to your scales."

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: "**חח**, HEH. Every ideas of effort applied to a thing, and of a thing making effort; a hook, fish-hook, ring; a thorn-bush. **חוח**, ChVCh that which is pointed, hooked; that which exercises any force whatever, as pincers, hooks, forceps: thence the arabic verb [word] "to penetrate, to go deeply into." *[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 349]*

---

### [viy](/keys/VI) - וי
> Alas! woe. Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"וי. onomotopoetic root which expreses disdain, disgust; in chaldaic, syriac and ethopic: it is the same sentiment expressed by the intejective relation FI!" [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.326]*

---

### [Audah](/keys/AVDH) - אודה
> I will thank.

---

### [Ahee](/keys/AHI) - אהי
> where?

---

### See Also:

- [7](7)

