## 165 - One Hundred Sixty-Five
> (3x5x11)

---

### [etzah](/keys/OTzH) - עצה
> feminine form of [עצ], it means not only trees, or timber generally, but is used also to designate the human spine which gives firmness to the physical body.

---

### [nequdah](/keys/NQVDH) - נקודה
> the point.

---

### [Aumeniah](/keys/OMMIH) - עממיה
> "God elevated above all things." 52nd Shemhamphorash; angel of the 3 of wands (Binah of Atziluth). 256°-260°. SAGEN. May 10, July 21, October 1, December 12, February 22, 5:00-5:20 PM. [Psalm 7:17](http://biblehub.com/psalms/7-17.htm) *"I will praise the Lord according to his righteousness; and will sing praise to the name of the Lord most high."* To destroy the power of enemies and to humiliate them. Rules all journeys in general: protects prisoners who have recourse to him (the angel); inspires them with the means creating their liberty; influences all those who seek truth in good faith, and departs from their errors in a sincere return to God. Person born: strong and vigorous temperament; supports adversities with much patience and courage; loves to work and executes all that he attempts with frugality. see [965](965), [1525](1525); [150](150), [710](710).

> Godwin gives: angel of the 4th quinance (16-20) of Aries; angel by night of the 3 of Wands. [see Imamiah, Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p. 149]

---

### [qelalah](/keys/QLLH) - קללה
> "curse". [Deuteronomy 30:1](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/30-1.htm) *"When all these blessing and curses I have set before you come upon you and you take them to heart whenever the Lord your God disperses among the nations."*

---

### [Naamah](/keys/NOMH) - נעמה
> Godwin gives: a queen of Demons; arch-demon corresponding to Malkuth.

---

### [lahudyom](/keys/LHVDIOM) - להודיעם
> Mathers cites [Psalm 25:14](http://biblehub.com/psalms/25-14.htm): *"The Lord confides in those who revere him; he makes his covenant known to them."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [philosophorum](/latin?word=philosophorum) (Lt)
> of the philosophers. see [193](193), [28](28) Latin.

---

### [lapis metallorum](/latin?word=lapis+metallorum) (Lt)
> stone of the metals. *"I have called it by various names, but the simplest is perhaps that of 'hyle' (#[428](428) Greek), or first principle of all things. It is also denominated the one stone of the philosophers, composed of hostile elements, the stone of the sun (#[117](117) Latin), the stone of the metals... by these and may other names it is called, yet is only one."* [[Hermetic Museum I, p.186](https://archive.org/stream/b24927363_0001#page/186)]

---

### [Fama Fraternitatis](/latin?word=Fama+Fraternitatis) (Lt)
Fame of the Fraternity. Title of the first Rosicrucian manifesto. *([Fama p.1](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n79))*

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)

