## 17 - Seventeen
prime.

---

### [The Seventeenth Path](/keys/Z) - ז
> *The seventeenth path (Zain, joining Binah to Tiphareth) is called the Intelligence of Sensation (or, the Disposing Intelligence). It establishes the faith of the compassionate, clothes them with the Holy Life-Breath, and is called the Foundation of Tiphareth in the plane of the Supernals.* [The Book of Formation]

Conferred by knowlede of the 17th Path:

> *Zain - He possesses the secret of the resurrection of the dead and the key of immortality* [Eliphas Levi - Transcendental Magic]

*"I am the Disposing Intelligence, choosing with discrimination each step towards the one light which alone is pure in beauty."* [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom].

I am the Disposing Intelligence, guiding all perceptions according to the One Will.

---

### [Key 17 - The Star](/keys/Tz) - צ

- [Tzaddi](90): Fish-hook (צ)
- Revelation, Meditation
- Natural Intelligence. [The Twenty-Eighth Path](28)
- Aquarius
- Violet / A-sharp

Her foot resting on the surface of the pond suggests ice, and therefore crystalization of the occult "water." This may be a reference to the formation of a crystal out of the "brain sand" in the pineal gland, which is also the philosopher's stone.

What is the woman doing in this picture? "Thou shalt separate the earth from the fire, the subtle from the gross, suavely, and with great ingenuity." She is fishing in the pool of subconsciousness for the "carp of truth," which she pours down through the channel of Qoph into **גוף** (Guph) the body. Also note that the jar on the right-hand side of the image corresponds to the torch in the same hand of the angel in [Key 14](/keys/S), which drips five yods representing Nun (5x10=50), the same "carp of truth" mentioned here. This "fish" of course is food for the Eagle, or Scorpio-force which causes the Kundalini to begin its journey up the spine toward the pineal gland.

Isis' legs are at 90 degree angles, which corresponds to the union of Isis and Osiris in the Pythagorean triangle. Also, the 90-degree angle represents the union of any dimension with the dimension above or below it, since the intersection between any two dimensions occurs at a 90-degree angle. Also note that Tzaddi carries the value of 90.

---

### [giyd](/keys/GID) - גיד
> sinew, vein, dried veins or tendon; penis. The sinew that shrank, in the story of Jacob's wrestling with the angel. [Genesis 32:32])(http://biblehub.com/genesis/32-32.htm)

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"גיד. A nerve, a tendon; everything that can be stretched for action."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 311] see [67](67), [360](360), [377](377).

---

### [zawbakh](/keys/ZBCh) - זבח
> to slaughter, to kill, to sacrifice. This is an alchemical name for the white stage of the Great Work.

---

### [zood](/keys/ZVD) - זוד
> to boil, to seethe; to be fervid; to seethe with anger; to be proud or insolent. To act arrogantly or rebelliously.

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"זוד. Action of boiling, literally; of being swollen, puffed up with pride, figuratively, to act haughtily."*

---

### [khawdaw](/keys/ChDH) - חדה
> to be glad, to rejoice, to gladden someone. see [hawd](/keys/ChD).

---

### [oi](/keys/AVI) - אוי
> Oh! Alas!

---

### [haggahdah](/keys/HGDH) - הגדה
> tale, legend; saga; narrative recital, homiletical portions of the Talmud; Haggadah, the order of the home-service on passover night. [Paul Case: a narrative; myth, recital. K.D.L.C.K page 267] Homiletical is teaching the principles adapting the sermons to the spiritual benefit of the hearer; the are of preparing sermons and preaching.

---

### [tob, tov](/keys/TVB) - טוב
> fairness, good, a good thing; benefit, welfare. *"This thy body is truly the heavenly vision of the Goodness of the eternal".* [Book of Tokens] The importance of recognizing the true value and meaning of man's physical body cannot be overemphasized. see [89](89), [170](170).

> Note that God said the Light, אור [Aur](/keys/AVR), was Good. [Genesis 1:4](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-4.htm): *"And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness."*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"טב. The sign of resistance united to that of interior action, image of all generation, composed a root which is applied to al ideas of conservation and central integrity: it is the symbol of healthy fructification, and of a force capable of setting aside every corruption. טוב. That which keeps a just mean; that which is well, healthy; that which defends itself and resists corruption; that which is good."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 356]


Snake-Nail-House. Literally, a "house-snake." Perhaps a euphemism for penis?

---

### [Gadi](/keys/GDI) - גדי
> fortunate one, sign of Capricorn. Sometime used as a title of Kether. see [207](207).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: The root, *"גד. An incursion, an irruption, literally and figuratively. An incision in anything whatsoever, a furrow; metaphorically, in the restricted sense, a kid: the sign of Capricorn."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 311]

---

### [hahzah](/keys/HZH) - הזה
> to dream; to rave.

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"The root of הז. Movement of ascension and exaltation expressed by the root אז, being spiritualized in this one, becomes a sort of mental delirium, a dream, a sympathetic somnambulism. The arabic [word] restricted to the material sense signifies to shake, to move to and fro, to wag the head; etc."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 330]

---

### [khoog](/keys/ChVG) - חוג
> to enclose, encompass; to describe a circle. In [Job 26:10](http://biblehub.com/job/26-10.htm): "He hath encompassed the water with bounds." The American translation: "He described a circle on the surface of the water." What is meant is the horizon. As Emerson says, "The eye is the first circle, the horizon which bounds it is the second." This is connected with עין, [Ayin](/keys/O), the eye. see [130](130).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"חוג. action of whirling, dancing in a ring, devoting one's self to pleasure, celebrating the games. Metaphorically, an orbit, a circumference, a sphere of activity, the terrestrial globe."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 347]

---

### [yawhab](/keys/IHB) - יהב
> to give, to provide; to place. Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"יהב. Action of being fruitful, manifesting fruits; a litter, a burden. Action of bearing, producing."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 363]

---

### [vehu](/keys/VHV) - והו
> First name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with he first quinance (1-5°) of Leo. see [32](32), [1525](1525).

---

### [Vaho](/keys/VHV) - והו
> 49th name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 1st quinance (1-5°) of Aries. see [48](48), [1525](1525).

---

### [ha-Hva](/keys/HHVA) - ההוא
> "The He" or "Him;" A reference to Kether, by Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p 267]. see [12](12) [HVA].

---

### [zawbob](/keys/ZBVB) - זבוב
> fly.

---

### [egoz](/keys/AGVZ) - אגוז
> Nut (of a fruit of a tree). Used in the [Song of Solomon 6:11](http://biblehub.com/songs/6-11.htm): *"I went down to the grove of the nut trees to look at the new growth in the valley, to see if the vines had budded or the pomegranates were in bloom."* [New International]. The Zohar says this passage refers to Yesod. The "seed-principle" is the clue to the inner occult meaning.

---

### [hahzah](/keys/HZH) - הזה
> to dream; to rave.

---

### [yehab](/keys/IHB) - יהב
> (noun). Lot, burden, what is given; fate (what bounds or limits). see [358](358), [830](830), [780](780), [130](130).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Adam](/latin?word=adam) (Lt)
> Man/Humanity (as a generic proper name). see [44](44), [45](45).

---

### English Gematria:

- [me](/english?word=me) *([Fama Intro p.13](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13))*

### See Also:

- [8](8)