## 176 - One Hundred Seventy-Six
> (11x16)

---

### [aonan](/keys/OVNN) - עונן
> to conjure, do magic, soothsay. see [126](126), [826](826).

---

### [nisyon](/keys/NSIVN) - נסיון
> trial, temptation, test, experiment, experience. The intelligence of Samekh, the 25th Path of Wisdom. see [536](536), [186](186).

---

### [leolahm](/keys/LOVLM) - לעולם
> Throughout the eons of eons; throughout endless ages, forever. Refers to the power of the One Self, acting through the 10 Sephiroth. see [736](736).

---

### [Yawatz](/keys/IVOTz) - יועץ
> counselor, advisor, a divine name emphasized in [Isaiah 9:6](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/9-6.htm). see [986](986), [1492](1492).

---

### [ehben hachokmim](/keys/ABN.HChKMIM) - אבן החכמים
> stone of the wise or philosopher s stone. [chokmim](/keys/ChKMIM), חכמים, is the plural of [chakam](/keys/ChKM), חכם, wise man, scholar, wise, skillful, and from it Chokmah, wisdom is derived.

---

### [pehsul](/keys/PSVL) - פסול
> illegitimate. also:

> - פסול trimming, cutting or branches-whatever is opposite to truth;
> - פסול defective, blemished, disqualified-by test and trial;
> - פסול, blemish, flaw, disqualification.

---

### [phutz](/keys/PVTz) - פוץ
> to be scattered, be dispersed; to be spread, dispensed; to overflow. A metathesis of TzVP. Here Peh is the initiating force and Tzaddi is the result. Action (Peh) through intuition (Vav) brings revelation (Tzaddi). OVNN uvnan. soothsayer, magician. The renewer (Ayin) through inner guidance (Vav), death (Nun) and change or transformation (Nun).

---

### [amminadab](/keys/OMINDB) - עמינדב
> "liberty", or "the divine kinsman gives". The ancestral head of a family or clan of Judah [1 Chron. 2:10](http://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/2-10.htm): *"And Ram beget Amminadab; and Amminadab beget Naishon, prince of the children of Judah."*

---

### [tzuph](/keys/TzVP) - צוף
> honeycomb. The abundance is the eternal out-pouring of counsel about the experience of life. [Proverbs 16:24](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/16-24.htm): *"Pleasant words are as an honey**comb**, sweet to the soul, and health to the bones."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### Fons Miraculorum (Lt)
> Fountain of Miracles. On plate 13 of Secret Symbols is shown a blue water triangle, marked Fons Miraculorum. In it are rooted a red rose, representing the "red word" of alchemy, and a white Lily, which symbolizes the "white work". The Lily stands for the lunar current. Yet both are rooted in the water triangle which is the fountain of miracles. The element of Water is the "One Thing", which is the primary substance for all miraculous manifestations. From the Turba Philosophorum: "The ignorant, when they hear us name water think it is the water of the clouds, but, if they understand our books, they should know it to be a permanent water, or fixed water, without which its sulphur, to which it hath been united, cannot be permanent."
