## 186 - One Hundred Eighty-Six
> 2x93.

---

### [Qoph](/keys/QVP) - קופ
> Letter-name Qoph. Back of head; ape, eye of a needle. Alternative spelling see [180](180), [739](739). *[Gematria Notebook of Paul Foster Case]*

---

### [Ehben Negeph](/keys/ABN.NGP) - אבנ נגפ
> A stone of stumbling; a rock to fall over. [Isaiah 8:14](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/8-14.htm). In this passage, it refers to Tetragrammaton of Host as a sanctuary. In the New Testament ([1 Peter 2:8](http://biblehub.com/1_peter/2-8.htm)), the "stone of stumbling" is identified with the foundation stone which is the pinnacle stone. It is the identification of the son with the father, and this is the basic meaning of [Key 14](14). All tests and trials afford experimental evidence of this identity. The stumbling-block to right thinking about this one identity is to be sought in misinterpretations of sense-experience. *[Gematria PFC]*

> *Corporeal Intelligence is the aggregate cell-consciousness of the physical body. This is often a stone of stumbling to those who do not know the objective of physical existence.* [Gematria of Letter-Names]

---

### [Maqom](/keys/MQVM) - מקום
> place, locality, dwelling-place; stand, existence, substance. This is directly related to the meaning of the letter-name [Samekh](120), a tent-peg. Misunderstanding of the function fo the corporeal intelligence is a great cause of error, which has its roots in a misconception of the significance of "place" or "locality", and of the true inwardness of what seems to be increase or addition. As Jacob said, "surely the Lord is in this place, and I knew it not." Body-consciousness is the Life-poser self-knowledge of form. *[Gematria PFC]*

> *מקום, a place, is another reference to the fact that the great work has definite location in time and space. It is the utilization of an energy which is out of time-space, but it is by bringing the powers of that which is now the unknown, into specific, localized expression that adeptship is won. But few there be who do not stumble over this 'stone' of material existence, and even the builders have sometimes rejected it.* [Letter-Names]

> *These wrong conclusions [as to the nature of the governing powers of the world] are usually misunderstandings of the real nature of the one reality upon which creation is established, and also of man's location or place in the cosmic order.* [[True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p.219](https://archive.org/stream/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985#page/n225)]

> The Book of Concealed Mystery says *"the balance hangs in the מקום (a place on which something stands or exists, a location) which is אין (not)".* Note that by this is hinted that מקום = אין [See [61](61)]. This is the same as what St. Peter is reported as saying in the Cleminine Homilies: *"The place of God is that-which-is-not."* אין is the unmanifest point or the center. [see Isaac Myer, The Qabalah, p. 118]. Itself is a needle. Jesus said that it was easier for a rich man [i.e. materialistically inclined] man to enter the kingdom of heaven than for a camel (Gimel) to pass through the eye of a needle. The "back of the head" is like to אין [see Book of Tokens]. The practice of habitual imagery through concentration to bring about body responsiveness to higher frequencies of light is hindered by the inertia of the "monkey mind," which will not be still, but persistence brings results. *[Gematria PFC]*

---

### [Mamonim](/keys/MMVNIM) - ממונים
> Prefects, magistrates, directors. The One Ego seated in the hearts of man. *[Gematria PFC]*

> *Magistrates, prefects, is a veiled reference to the verious dominant centers in the organism. These are the same as the Hindu chakras, the interior stars, the alchemical metals. Each has jurisdiction over a particular group of organs and functions, and each is capable of manifesting a certain higher type of consciousness. These magistrates or prefects must be awakened from their sleep, and aroused to a full exercise of their powers.* [Letter-Names]

---

### [Musaph](/keys/MVSP) - מוסף
> An increase, an addition; additional service, offering prayer; attachment, ruin. The idea behind this is that through testing and experiment man adds to the means at his service for the mastery of circumstance.

---

### [Nisawyuni](/keys/NSIVNI) - נסיוני
> Probation, trial, testing, proving by experiement. The [25th Path](25) of [Samekh](/keys/S). The adjective is derived from נסיונ, [nisawyun](/keys/NSIVN) ([176](176)), meaning "trial, temptation, test, experiment, experience." Probation or trial signifies the testing of the ideas and innovations suggested by the imagination. It joins Beauty to Foundataion, because only by experiements, trials and tests can the harmony of tiphareth become actualized in term Foundation. see [60](60), [176](176), [536](536) *[Gematria PFC]*

> *It becomes, therefore, the most important of all considerations with what character we invest the Universal Mind; for since our relation to it is **purely subjective** it will infallibly bear **to us** exactly that character which we impress upon it; in other words it will be to us exactly what we believe it to be.... This is the meaning of that remarkable passage in the Bible, "With the pure thou wilt show thyself pure, and with the froward thow wilt show thyself froward" [Ps 18:26](http://biblehub.com/psalms/18-26.htm), for the context makes it clear to us that these words are addressed to the Divine Being. The spiritual kingdom is **within** us, and as we realize it **there** so it becomes to us a reality.*  [Thomas Troward, The Edinburgh on Mental Science, p. 99]

> After we have overcome the fears and delusions represented by Key 15, we must do all that we can to deepen our realization that the One I AM is the real Actor and Knower in our personal lives. The angel in Key 14 represents that I AM.

> *The stumbling block to right thinking about this One Identity is to be sought in misinterpretations of sense experience. Until our senses are refined and their reports correctly correlated, they lead us to form wrong conclusions as to the nature of the governing powers of the world (ממונים, **mamonim,** "the prefects"). These wrong conclusions are usually misunderstandings of the real nature of the One Reality on which creation is established, and also of man's location or place in the cosmic order (מקום, "place"). The cause of this misunderstanding is a defect in our own organization, which is not complete and so gives us only a partial experience of reality. This is the import of the correspondence of נסיוני, **nisawyuni,** the name of the twenty-fifth path, to קופ, [qoph](/keys/QVP), the letter-name related to the Corporeal Intelligence, or body consciousness. When we understand the Law of Growth or Evolution hinted at by the word מוסף, [mosaph](/keys/MVSP), meaning "increase," we begin to take our own evolution in hand and proceed step by step along the path of liberation that leads to the perfection of the organism. Then we shall remedy our partial knowledge by our ability to become omniscient ourselves, as persons. It does not mean that we can bring the perfect knowledge of Omniscience itself to bear on any problem we may be called on to solve.* [[True and Invisible (Weiser), p. 219-220](https://archive.org/stream/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985#page/n225)]

> *It is not without significance that this 25th path is associated by Qabalists to the zodiacal sign Sagittarius, whose symbol is the arrow. We must aim at something and shoot at it. Even if we miss, we have done that much toward gaining the skill that will eventually enable us to make bullseyes every time. Ihe most accurate instructions in archery will never make an archer. One must draw the bow and let fly the arrow. This is the first test -- the test of practical application. When things go wrong with us it is because we are not aiming right. The power of increase is a rock of stumbling to us, because we have taken no steps to verify the fundamental doctrine of ageless wisdom, which is that every personal expression of the one identity thinks, feels, speaks, and acts (consciously and subconsciously) through th operation of a single Life Power, which **flows through** the personal organism but does not originate therein.* [[True and Invisible (Weiser), p. 220](https://archive.org/stream/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985#page/n225)]

---

### See Also
- [15](15)
- [6](6)