## 187 - One Hundred Eighty-Seven
> (11x17)

---

### [Ophanim](/keys/AVPNIM) - אופנים
> Wheels Choir (order) of angels of Chokmah, suggesting mobility. The Ophanim are the circuits of the celestial forces, and they are also the circling of the vital forces in the human body. Control of this vital energy from Chokmah within is what enables one to develop the perfected, transparent vehicle of adeptship. the two Chariot wheels in Key 7 refer to the Ophanim. see [73](73), [137](137).

---

### [khagui-seloh](/keys/ChGVI-SLO) - חגוי־סלע
> clefts of the rocks. See the third degree teaching of free-masonry. The voices of the three ruffians were heard issuing from the rocks by a fell-craft who had just discovered a sprig of acacia on the brow of a hill.

---

### [chaii ha-ohlam habah](/keys/ChII.HOVLM.HBA) - חיי העולם הבא
> vita mundi ventural. the Life-breath of the world. [K.D.L.C.K. p.342]. "For Chokmah is also called 'the Life-breath of the world" because it is the life of the Sphere of Binah, which is called the soul (or breath) of the world." 2 x 7 x 187 = [2618](2618) = ῇ ἐπιγνώσης τοῦ Θεοῦ ([heh epignosis tou theou](/greek?word=h+epignOshs+tou+theou))? "the exact knowledge of God" (mangled spelling). [Colossians 1:10](https://biblehub.com/text/colossians/1-10.htm).

---

### [Ben+Adam+Melek](/keys/BN.ADM.MLK) - בן אדם מלך
> The Son + Adam + The King. These are three title of Tiphareth, Sphere of the Sun and 6th Sephirah. see [52](52), [45](45), [90](90), [1081](1081).

> *"Add [52](52), [45](45) and [90](90). [187](187). Their sum reduces to 7, but the extension of 7 is the perfect number, [28](28), and this takes you back through 10 [Malkuth] to 1 [Kether]. ...Man (ADM) is the Son (BN), and because he is the Son, he is the King (MLK). He stands at the Center, and this is the point of absolute rest. Man's kingship is hereditary: only because he is Son is he King. He is the core of all, and, as you, H., should know, the core is truly the heart. ...Now, a cube shows the number 4 on every face, and the angles formed by its diagonals and sides are angles of [45](45) degrees, that is, ADM, while the angles at its corners are 90 degrees, that is, MLK. But because the interior corner-to-corner diagonals are root 3 lines, each of these has the same basic value as the side of an equilateral triangle, and these four lines inside a cube are therefore analogous to such lines on the Tree as Daleth. Now multiply the square root of 3 by 4 (1.732 x 4 = 6.928). This is 7 in whole numbers, and this hides BN, Ben, for BN is [52](52), which reduces to [7](7).*

> *See, then, in the cube, BN, MLK and ADM conjoined, as they are in the names of Tiphareth, and the essence of these three is 7 also. For they add to 187. ...if the Scorpio force is used for generation it cannot be used for the Great Work. Used it may be, in several ways; but whatever the special regimen, it always excludes physical procreation. In Tibet this is well-known, as it is in the Western School. The objective is the new birth as one of the Sons of the Doctrine. Meditation is the process. It is the physiological demonstration of a seed-idea, and the names ADM, BN, MLK are the statement of that idea.*

> *Become the true ADM, and you become the Son who is King, and all that the Father hath is yours. The illusion of the Microcosm is transmuted into the reality of the Macrocosm. One of the many becomes the All."* [13th Communication] see [67](67).

---

### [Paimon](/keys/PAIMVN) - פאימון
> "tinkling sound"; demon king of Fire. Also Goetic demon by day of the third decanate of Gemini, corresponding to the 10 of Swords (Malkuth in Yetzirah), implying sudden and unexpected changes in material affairs, failure and destruction, the angel's name suggest the power of Mars (Peh) inflaming spiritual force (Aleph) to seed (Yod) a reversal of mental attitude (Mem) to hear the false "voices" (Vav) in an eternal reproduction of error (Nun). see [837](837).

---

### [Sophiel](/keys/SVPIAL) - סופיאל
> "Thing of God"; Given by Maters in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.24]. He cites [Book of the Key of Solomon the King, figure [52](52)], where Sophiel is said to be the angel of the 4th pentacle of the moon: "This defendenth thee from all evil sorceries, and from all injury unto soul of body. Its angel, Sophiel, giveth the knowledge of the virtue of all herbs and stones; and unto whomsoever shall name him, he will procure the knowledge of all." (P.72)

> "In Jewish Cabala, Sophiel is the intelligence of Jupiter (the corresponding angel here being Zadykiel"] [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.277]

---

### See Also:

- [16](16)
- [7](7)
- [Bible Wheel: 187](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=187)
