## 197 - One Hundred Ninety-Seven
> (prime)

---

### [Ben Jephunna](/keys/BN.IPNH) - בן יפנה
> Son of Jephunna ([Numbers 13:6](http://biblehub.com/numbers/13-6.htm)). Refers to Caleb ([52](52)). Intimates Tiphareth manifested in the meditation process, which gives to the mercurial aspect, or consciousness, its full power and perfected humanity (see [145](145), [52](52)).

> *"Yod and Peh add to 90, the full spelling of Mem, and also the number of Tzaddi, the letter of Meditation, which perfected, leads to the state pictured by Key 12. Again Nun and Heh, the last two letters add to [55](55), the number of the word NAH, ornament, relating to Malkuth, because 55 is the extension of [10](10), and this same 55 is the value of KLH, Kala, the Bride, a name of Malkuth. Thus BNIPNH, Ben Jephunna, son of Jephunna, intimates Tiphareth manifested in the meditation process which gives to the mercurial aspect, or consciousness, its full power and perfected humanity."* [Commentary-33rd Communication 2/12/48]

---

### [El Elyon](/keys/AL.OLIVN) - אל עליון
> Most High God. [Genesis 14:19](https://biblehub.com/genesis/14-19.htm): *"And he blessed him, and said, Blessed be Abram of the most high God, possessor of heaven and earth"*

> Melchizedek means "king of righteousness"; Salem (Shalom) means "peace, wholeness, perfection, completion." see [294](294), [376](376). OLIVN means high, higher, upper, uppermost, highest, and refers to Kether, the Crown. see [166](166). Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.92] gives Deus supremus, and says that Kether is so called because it has its highest place in Atziluth.

---

### [wel-qyin](/keys/VAL-QIN) - ואל־קין
but Cain. [Genesis 4:5](https://biblehub.com/genesis/4-5.htm): *"But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell"*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Agorazei](/greek?word=agorazei) (Gr) - αγοραζει
> buys, purchases.

---

### See Also:

- [17](17)
- [8](8)
- [Bible Wheel: 197](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=197)

