## 200 - Two Hundred
2x10x10

---

### [Resh](/keys/R) - ר
Head or Countenance.

> *"Man is a synthesis of all cosmic activities. Human intelligence gathers together all the various threads of the life Power's self-manifestation and carries that manifestation beyond anything that could come into existence apart from Man and human intelligence. This doctrine is based on the Qabalistic meaning of the Hebrew letter Resh, to which is attributed the 'Collective Intelligence'"* [True and Invisible, p179]

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"This character as consonant, belongs to the lingual sound. As symbolic image, it represents the head of man, his determining movement, his progress.... the letter R draws its origin from the igneous faculty of nature. It is the emblem of fire.... in his book [Boehme] of the Triple Life of Man, that each inflection, vocal or consonantal, is a particular form of central nature. 'Although speech varies them by transposition, nevertheless each letter has an origin at the center of nature. This origin is wonderful and the senses can grasp it only by the light of intelligence.'*

> *"As a grammatical sign, the character Resh is, in the Hebraic tongue, the sign of all movement proper, good or bad. It is an original and frequentative sign, image of the renewal of things, as to their movement."*" [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p446]

---

### [Kanafim](/keys/KNPIM) - כנפים
Wings; rays.

> *[Malachi 4:2](http://biblehub.com/malachi/4-2.htm) "But unto you that fear my name shall the sun of righteousness rise, with healing in his wings."* Note the direct reference to the Sun.

---

### [Mem-Yod-Mem](/keys/MIM.YVD.MIM) - מים יוד מים
> The letter-name Mem, spelt in plentitude. One of several intimations that Light is fluidic.

---

### [Seliq](/keys/SLIQ) - סליק
> finished; the end. Used in Rabbinical writings as we employ the Latin finis to mark the end of a book. The more recondite meaning has to do with the idea that the manifestation of suns, or luminaries, is the final step in the condensation of the Limitless Light into physical forms.

---

### [Etzem](/keys/OTzM) - עצם
> bone, body, substance, essence, life, self, wealth, livestock. *[Psalm 139:15](http://biblehub.com/psalms/139-15.htm): "My substance was not hid from thee, when I was made in secret, and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth."* The human body and the earth are identified. The "substance" is the universal radiant energy. The word etzem is closely related to the word **עץ** [Etz](/keys/OTz), tree, like the Hyle of the Gnostics, its primary meaning is wood. Here the human body is likened to the Tree of Life, whose essence is that Life. also: **עץ** [Etz](/keys/OTz): might force. see [423](423), [160](160).

---

### [Qadmon](/keys/QDMVN) - קדמון
> archetypal. Its correspondence with Resh intimates that the primal or archetypal substance is the universal radiance.

---

### [Qesem](/keys/QSM) - קסם
> magic, divination. Accomplished vie the essence of light or radiant energy.

---

### [ha-malekah ha-nedulah](/keys/HMLKH.HNDVLH) - המלכה הנדולה
> The great queen. See [Key 3 - The Empress](3).

---

### [Nealim](/keys/NOLIM) - נעלים
> Sandals, shoes, boots. Containers of the motive power.

---

### [Qitz](/keys/QITz) - קיץ
> Belonging to the spring, vernal. Also Summer.

---

### [Anaph](/keys/ONP) - ענף
> branch, bough. Connected with the Tree and body. See [589](589).

---

### [Qalo](/keys/QLO) - קלע
> Slinger, archer, marksman. See [Qesheth](/keys/QShTh).

---

### See Also:

- [20](20)
- [2](2)
