## 207 - Two Hundred Seven
> [9](9)x[23](23).

---

### [Ain Suph](/keys/AIN.SVP) - אין סוף
> No limit; the boundless. Not perishable; never ending. The Second Veil of the Absolute. As the 2nd veil it hints that the Absolute has within itself the potencies of creation (A), formation (I), reproduction (N), maintenance (S), coordination (V) and expression (P). *[Gematria PFC]*

A=Ox I=Hand N=Fish, S=Prop V=Nail P=Mouth. [Ain](/keys/AIN), **אין,** represents energy as a source of perpetual change. [Suph](/keys/SVP), **סוף,** indicates the mouth nailed and barred shut. Hence [Ain Suph](/keys/AIN.SVP), **אין סוף,** can be interpreted as "practice silence to overcome your limitations." Also: Ain = "Not", Suph = "Mortal", Ain Suph = "Immortal".

---

### [Aur](/keys/AVR) - אור
> Light, fire [Genesis 1:3](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-3.htm), enlightenment. With different vowel points: the direction East. The Lord of the Universe, the Boundless, is the One Light we all seek, the One East, or Orient, toward which we turn our mental gaze, and toward which we "travel" as we make our way along the Path of Return. it is the One Source of our existence, and of all other existences, past, present, and to come. Also the place-name Ur, where Abraham was born. see [65](65), [217](217), [602](602). *[Gematria PFC]*

> For [Chaiah](/keys/ChIH) is none other than **אור**. Now see, **אור** Aur is the number 207, and this is 9 times 23. Now 23 is the number of **חיה** [Chaiah](/keys/ChIH), and 9 is the number of [Yesod](/keys/YSVD); furthermore Chaiah is in Chokmah and is thus to be understood as the power of **אב** [Ab](/keys/AB) the father. Thus may you know that Life and Light are one; that Light is always pure and always Holy, and that the extension of Light is its multiplication through forms. *[27th Communication]* see [363](363), [23](23), [73](73)

> *"I cannot repeat too often that all words of the Hebrew tongue are formed in such a way as to contain within themselves the reason for their formation. Let us consider the word **אור** [Aur](/keys/AVR) Light: it is derived directly from the word **אור** [Aur](/keys/AVR) Fire. The only difference between them is that in the word which designates fire, it is the universal convertible sign Vav which forms the link between the sign of power Aleph, and that of movement proper: whereas in the second, it is the intelligible sign Vav. Let us proceed further. If, from the words **אור** and **אור** (different vowel points on Vav), one takes away the median sign Vav or Vav there will remain in the elementary root **אר** [Ar](/keys/AR), composed of power and movement, which in all known tongues signifies by turns: earth, water, air, fire, ether, light, according to the sign joined thereunto ... together they are the symbol of the elementary principle whatever it may be, and of all which pertain to that eleemnt or to nature in general. Hieroglyphically **אר** [Ar](/keys/AR) was represented by the straight line, and **אש** [Ash](/keys/ASh) by the circular line. Ar, conceived as elementary principle, indicated direct movement, rectilinear; **אש** [Ash](/keys/ASh) relative movement, curvilinear, gyration. **אר** [Ar](/keys/AR) that which belongs to the elementary principle, that which is strong, vigorous, productive. The Arabic offers the same sense as the Hebrew. It is ardor, impulse in general: in a restricted sense, amorous ardor; action of giving oneself to this ardor; union of the sexes. **אר** [Ar](/keys/AR) or **יאר** [Yar](/keys/IAR) -- that which flows, that which is fluidic; a river. The Chaldaic **אר** [Ar](/keys/AR) or **איר** [Air](/keys/AIR) signifies Air. **אור** [Aur](/keys/AVR) -- fire, heat; action of burning. **אור** [Aur](/keys/AVR) light; action of enightening, instructing, life, joy, felicity, grace, etc.* [Fabre D'Olivet, The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p298-9, 32-3]

> *"[Genesis 1:3](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-3.htm): We have here the first desire or purpose which God ever gave expression to. It was for 'light'... the Hebrew word for 'said', [Amour](/keys/AMR) ... holds quite wide meanings. It is very closely related to the word for 'light', [Aor](/keys/AVR). Both words start from the same root: 'AR' or 'ER' [AR](/keys/AR), which we have already explained as signifying the 'primal element' of all things. The sign of 'light', 'intelligence', 'action', (O) [V] is inserted in the root and it becomes "aor" -- "light." It is not limited to the idea of "physical" light, such as the light of the sun, or of a lamp, by any means. There is also mental light; when something is explained to us, and we understand, we say "I see". When spiritual light opens on us, we know what the "light" which "ligtheth every man" is. In the present case there is no question at all of phuysical light, as no physical source of light had yet been created or formed. It refers to "Intelligence" which is the Spiritual prototype of all "light". Spiritually, "light" and "intelligence" are always synonymous.* [F.J. Mayers - The Unknown God, Ain Soph](http://www.organelle.org/as/aschap6.htm)

> [text missing] ... what was below, its radiance spread from one end of the world to the other; but when it observed the sinners of the world, it hid itself away, and issued only by secret paths which cannot be discovered.... this is the original light which God created. This is the light of the eye. It is the light which God showed to Adam, and through which he was able to see from one end of the world to the other. It was the light which God showed to David, who on seeing it burst forth into praise, saying *'Oh, how abundant is thy goodness which thou has laid up for them that fear thee.'* [Psalm 31:19](http://biblehub.com/psalms/31-20.htm)

> *"אור expresses the copulation of Aleph and of its physical support resh... it is a living energy, both outer and inner. The Qabalist have always laid great stress on that symbol, both in its physical and in its metaphysical significance... אור, which we call light, is essentially a love in a self-creative twofold mode of being... אור and אור: inner light and outer light. Whether intuition and perception, or heart and mind, or soul and body, whatever their names, when they come to mean something to us, inside us, when there joint action is fruitful, the revelation is here. Why has this twofold energy, deriving from the action of the universal life-force upon its cosmic container, been translated as 'light'? The answer is that the universe, considered as a space-time continuum, is set into motion at the maximum speed of which it is capable. According to a very ancient tradition, [Genesis 1:3](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-3.htm) says that maximum speed is the speed of light... in other words, the infinite movement of Aleph imprints in the mass of Resh the greatest speed of which Resh is capable. It can be inferred that in absolutely all components the universe yields to the mighty power of Aleph, or again that the universe is totally permeated by Aleph to the point of perpetually generating it, so that Aleph indefinitely becomes its own son. To reiterate in plain and simple language, [Genesis 1:3](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-3.htm) states that as a consequence of the interplay between the pulsating Aleph and the continuous existence of Yod, Aleph is copulatively (Vav) projected into the universe (Resh). This living process is therefore expressed in the sequence Aleph-Vav-Resh, which spells the word אור (pronounced or), which is what we call light."* [Carlio Saures - The Cipher of Genesis, pp. 85-86](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0877287406)

---

### [Adon Olahm](/keys/ADVN.OVLM) - אדון עולם
> Eternal Lord of the Universe, eternity. Lord of the Hidden Mystery; Lord of Eternity. The No-Limit, or Boundless, is the Master Principle of the Universe, the Lord of Time and Eternity, the Hidden Ruller of the Mystery of Absolute Being. see [61](61), [146](146).

---

### [Gadar](/keys/GDR) - גדר
(verb) to enclose; (noun) a wall, a boundary.

---

### [Gadaer](/keys/GDR) - גדר
> Enclosure, form; to enclose; a wall, a boundary. The Limitless Being, Lord of the Universe, Source of all existence, encloses or surrounds the entire field of the manifest, which field is contained within the Limitless Being of the Boundless One. In order to manifest, it must establish within itself a field of operation, an area which is limited or enclosed. *[Gematria PFC]*

---

### [Rabah](/keys/RBH) - רבה
> To grow, to be in abundance, to multiply. This One Reality, the Limitless, is the cosmic principle of growth, increase and development. Growth is a fundamental law of manifestation, to increase, to grow great. With a different grammatical structure, **ורבו** [Urebu](/keys/VRBV) "and multiply", used in the first divine command recorded in [Genesis 1:22](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-22.htm) *"And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, and multiply".* It intimates that the boundless, **אין סוף** [Ain Suph](/keys/AIN.SVP), is to be understood as a limitless power of growth and development. It is a cosmic principle of increase. Also:

> - [Rubaw](/keys/RBH): to become many, to be large, be great. To be numerous, manifold.
> - [Ribaw](/keys/RBH): to make large, increase; to bring up, raise; to lend or borrow on usury; to make profit; to include by implication; to widen the scope of a law.
> - [Rahbaw](/keys/RBH): much, exceedingly.

---

### [Rahab](/keys/RHB) - רהב
> To be or become wide, large, spacious. With different vowel points: to boast, act proudly, arrogance, to be haughty, to urge, importune; to submit to, acknowledge one's authority. Also:

> - **רהבם** [Rahebam](/keys/RHBM) - "their strength". [Psalm 90:10](http://biblehub.com/psalms/90-10.htm): *"The days of our years are threescore years and ten; and if by reason of strength they become fourscore years, yet is their strength labor and sorrow; for it is soon cut off, and we fly away."*
> - **רהב** [Rahab](/keys/RHB) - pride, arrogance, a sea-monster; epithet of Egypt; fear;
> - **רהב** [Rahab](/keys/RHB) - proud, defiant;
> - **רהב** [Rahab](/keys/RHB) - pride, haughtiness.

---

### [Raz](/keys/RZ) - רז
> A mystery, secret. The limitless is the essence of all mystery. [Daniel 2:18](http://biblehub.com/daniel/2-18.htm). Although the Aramaic form **רזא** [Raza](/keys/RZA) appears there, in connection with the forgotten dream of Nebuchadnezzar. It is noteworthy that this dream has mystical interpretations, handed down for generations through the secret schools. These interpretations have to do with the esoteric doctrines concerning both time and space. The Limitless is the essence of all mystery. It is beyond intellectual comprehension. Therefore we need not try to grasp it. It is to be known after another manner.

> [Daniel 2:18](http://biblehub.com/daniel/2-18.htm): *He urged them to plead for mercy from the God of heaven concerning this **mystery,** so that he and his friends might not be executed with the rest of the wise men of Babylon.*

---

### [Agrab](/keys/AGRAB) - אגראב
> A scorpion. Name of the sign Scorpio, linked with death, change, the reproduction force and transformation. See [Key 13](13), [50](50), [106](106), [700](700).

---

### [Barah](/keys/BRH) - ברה
> to cut, to cut asunder. Root of the noun **ברית** [Brith](/keys/BRITh), covenant. Also to make manifest, to choose, to select. Thus it indicates [Ain Suph](/keys/AIN.SVP), the limitless, as the source of a division within itself by means of which the Life-power becomes manifest in a cycle of creative activity.

---

### [Habar](/keys/HBR) - הבר
> To divide, to cut apart, divide out; that which cuts; to pronounce, enunciate. Root of a noun which designates an astrologer, one who divides the heavens. The basic idea is that of the subdivision of space, and it is allied in meaning to what is suggested by **גדל** [Gadal](/keys/GDL) and **סוף** [Suph](/keys/SVP).

---

### [Zaqaq](/keys/ZQQ) - זקק
> To strain, to filter (as wine); to refine, purity. Also applied to metals, and in relation to **אין סוף** [Ain Suph](/keys/AIN.SVP) has to do with the idea of the boundless as that actual source of material for manifestation.

---

### [Zare](/keys/ZR) - זר
> A border, wreath, collar, crown, necklace. The crown of the ark of the covenant. A noun which brings to the fore the same idea of limitation or circumscription, which is part of the meaning of **הבר** [Habar](/keys/HBR), **סוף** [Suph](/keys/SVP) and **גדר** [Gadar](/keys/GDR). Also:

> - [Zahr](/keys/ZR) frame, edging
> - [Zehr](/keys/ZR) stranger; alien, foreigner; strange idolatry

---

### [R/Z](/keys/R.Z) - ר ז
Sun in Gemini.

---

### See Also

- [27](27)
- [9](9)
