## 214 - Two Hundred Fourteen
2x107.

---

### [Ruach](/keys/RVCh) - רוח
> life-breath, Spirit, Mind, Air, Imagination. Attributed to the path of Aleph. The specialized force of the Primal Will as imagination assigned to Tiphareth and to Yetzirah. Considered as thought-power or creativity from the universal mind stuff. Also manifested as psychic force. Note that Resh (sun) Vav (and) and Cheth (moon) reads "Sun and Moon," of which with the aid of Mercury is the operation of the Great Work. Resh, sunlight transformed by the brain into sensations, emotions, and thoughts is the cause of the operation of this principle. Vav, it is the connecting medium which joins every human being to all other things and creatures in the universe. Cheth, it is a power which can be motivated by means of mental imagery, and especially as expressed in sound vibrations or "words of power". Ruach is the metathesis of the Egyptian Hor (us), indicating a close correspondence. see [1081](1081), [52](52), [111](111), [1708](1708), [37](37). Also:

> - רוח to be wide, spacious; to spread, extend;
> - רוח space, wide space, interval; relief; respite; profit, gain.
> - רוח roomy; wide. Case: subtle air; human spirit.

> see [565](565). Thus Neshamah is carried to Ruach through the Path of זין = [67](67) = בינה, and Ruach to Yesod through the Path of Samekh.

> [text missing]

> Note: Tiphareth (Air) is between Geburah (Fire) and Chesed (Water) above, and Netzach (Fire) and Hod (Water) below. *[Gematria PFC]*

> 5. The Zohar [IV:175B, p. 109] Refers to Ruach as "wind" in the following passage: *"We have learnt that wisdom beat against the stones of the 32 paths and caused the wind to gather many waters into one place. Then fifty gates of understanding were opened. From the paths emanated ten luminous crowns, and there were left 22 paths. The wind whirled down those paths and fifty gates of understanding were opened, and the 22 letters were engraved upon fifty gates of the jubilee and were crowned with the seventy-two letters of the holy name. These opened out sideways in their turn and were crowned with the 22 crowns of compassion which are contained in the ancient of days, who bestowed light upon them, to each according to its place. Fifty engraved letters also were crowned with 42 supernal letters of the holy name, by which heaven and earth were created. And eight gates were opened, which are the eight significations of mercy..."*

---

### [Hur, Khoor](/keys/ChVR) - חור
> whiteness, pale; Old Testament name. Father of Uri ("fiery, lustrous") A reference to the white light of Kether. also:

> - חור to grow pale, white;
> - חור to make clear, evident;
> - חור leprous, leper.

> see [208](208) (variant spelling), [217](217), [254](254), [240](240). *[Gematria PFC]*

---

### [yarad](/keys/IRD) - ירד
> to descend, go down; to move from higher to a lower level. Old Testament name Irad, son of Enoch ("initiated"). Also means to bring down, to make something descend. Expresses a key law which apples to all human use of the Life-power. In using electricity, however it is applied, the energy must always pass from a higher to a lower potential. This holds good for all works of magic. *[Gematria PFC]*

---

### [Jared](/keys/IRD) - ירד
> (Yered) the sixth in the series of descendants from Adam. see [615](615). *[Genesis 5:18](http://biblehub.com/genesis/5-18.htm) "When Jared had lived [162](162) years, he became father of Enoch."*

> Fabre D'Olivet renders this verse: *"And Mahollael (mighty, exaltation, splendor) existed five and six tens of cycles (of ontological mutation), and he produced Ired (steadfastness, perseverance, either upward or downward." He comments: ירד Ired... here among the descendants of Sheth is the same Whirad, that we have seen figuring among those of Kain; but who is presented now under a form more softened. In losing its initial sign Ayin, which is that of material sense, it has left its passionate and excitative ardor. The natural sense which it contains is now that of perseverance, of steadfastness to follow an imparted movement. It is true that this movement can be good or evil, ascending or descending as is proved by the two verbs springing form the root. רוד: the one רדוה means to govern, to dominate; the other, ירוד, signifies to sink, to descend." [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp. 161-162]*

---

### [azor](/keys/AZVR) - אזור
> a girdle, belt or band, zone, region. A girdle is a symbol of Venus and suggest control and support. As an adjective, אזור, girded, girt. *[The Gematria Notebooks of Paul Foster Case]*

---

### [diqedduq](/keys/DQDVQ) - דקדוק
> nicety, fine point, detail, precision, minuteness; accuracy; subtlety. A rabbinical word which has for its primary meaning accuracy; from a root implying minute discrimination. In later Hebrew means grammar; and is related to Ruach and Tiphareth because one of the principle functions of Adam, the Ego consciousness, to give name to things. Mastery of subconsciousness levels depends on accuracy of speech. see [687](687). *[Gematria PFC]*

---

### [maadannim](/keys/MODNIM) - מעדנים
> delicacies, delights, pleasures, bonds, fetters. see [640](640), [1081](1081), [45](45), [52](52), [90](90), [311](311), [478](478), [536](536), [548](548). *[Gematria PFC]*

---

### [urebu](/keys/VRBV) - ורבו
And multiply. [Genesis 1:28](https://biblehub.com/genesis/1-28.htm): *"And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth."*

---

### See Also

- [7](7)
- [BibleWheel: 214](https://www.biblewheel.com/GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=214)
