## 215 - Two Hundred Fifteen
> (5x43)

---

### [agorah](/keys/AGVRH) - אגורה
> something gathered, bound. Refers to the unity of Life. Also: to gather together, accumulate.

---

### [addiyr](/keys/ADIR) - אדיר
> excellent, worthy, gallant, lordly, glorious, good, noble, principal, worthy. Conveys the notion of superiority or pre-eminence.

---

### [aurch](/keys/ARVCh) - ארוח
> a path or narrow way. A path, a narrow way. Given as a correspondence to Sephiroth. Can also be read: אור־ח (aur-Cheth), "light-field."

---

### [Vav-Teth-Nun-Tzaddi-Samekh](/keys/V.T.N.Tz.S) - ו ט נ צ ס
> Letters corresponding to: Emerald -- Taurus-Bull-Vav; Diamond -- Leo-Lion-Teth; Agate -- Scorpio-Eagle-Nun; Sapphire -- Aquarius-man-Tzaddi; carbuncle -- fire-Samekh. These numbers reduce to 8, an alchemical number. Thus the 4 Fixed signs and Common fiery sign. D.D. Bryant: *"According to Gnostic wisdom, thus sun is Christ, the son of God... Its allpowerful, and when united to these black ashes' (this is typified by the descent of spirit into matter, or of Christ into humanity), it brings out their innermost life and beauty, which was, after all, only concealed from our view, for turned right side out, the gloriously beautiful, as they unite before our enraptured eyes into diamonds, sapphires, emeralds, carbuncles, agates and many other precious gems, finally terminating in the purest gold, sowing clearly that this is nature's ultimate intention for all minerals and metals."* [The Art of Alchemy IX, 9].

---

### [ha-khereb](/keys/HChRB) - החרב
> the sword. [Genesis 3:24](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-24.htm): *"So he [the Lord] drove out the man [Adam] and he placed at the east of the garden of Eden Cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the way [path] of the Tree of Life."* see [259](259), [310](310), [53](53), [124](124), [272](272), [1493](1493) (Greek).

---

### [zarach](/keys/ZRCh) - זרח
> to irradiate, to rise (as the sun), shine, to come out, appear. זרח rising, shining. זרח (zerah). Father of Jubab, and a king of Edom, [Genesis 36:17](http://biblehub.com/genesis/36-17.htm): *"The sons of Esau's son Reuel: chiefs Nahath, Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah. These were the chiefs descended from Ellpaz in Edom; they were grandsons of Adah."*

---

### [toor](/keys/TVR) - טור
> row, line; course of building stones; encompass, surround, line in script; column of page. In the Aramaic, same pointing, it means mountain. Suggest the path to attainment.

---

### [awchor](/keys/AChVR) - אחור
> back, rear; west; buttock, posterior, the reversed part. West is the direction attributed to manifestation, completion -- *"west-ward the course of empire takes its way."*

---

### [ha-nephium](/keys/HNPLIM) - הנפלים
> the giants. [Genesis 6:4](http://biblehub.com/genesis/6-4.htm): *"There were [the] giants in the earth in those days; and also after that, when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare children unto them, the me became mighty men which were of old, men of renown."* see [210](210).

---

### [Horebaw, Hawraybah](/keys/ChRBH) - חרבה
> "to horeb" [Exodus 3:1](http://biblehub.com/exodus/3-1.htm): *"Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro-his father-in-law, the priest of Median: and he led the flock to the backside of the desert, and came to the mountain of God, even to Horeb."* see [542](542).

> Also חרבה pruningknife. see [210](210). Also: חרבה (hawraybah) waste, ruin; desert land. note חרב Horeb ([210](210)) is masculine and has the same meaning: dryness, drought; heat, desolation, waste. Compare this with ציון Zion (#[156](156)) parched ground, desert = ציון monument; landmark, signpost [from ציה to burn, to glow, to glitter] In [Genesis 7:22](http://biblehub.com/genesis/7-22.htm) this word is translated "dry land" *("All in whose nostrils was the breath of life, of all that was in the day land, died.")*

> In [Genesis 1:10](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-10.htm), the word יבשה is used ("And God called the dry land earth.") It also is feminine. [Genesis 7:22](http://biblehub.com/genesis/7-22.htm) is the account of the flood; so the word must really mean "desert land" instead of "dry land" (in [Genesis 8:14](http://biblehub.com/genesis/8-14.htm): *"Was the earth dry",* the word for dry is יבשה). Godwin gives. Parched land (charabhah); one of the seven earths, corresponding to Geburah.

---

## Greek/Latin

---

### [hise](/greek?word=ise) (Gr) - ισε
> One. Refers to the unity of all life. see [13](13), [67](67).

---

### See Also:

- [8](8)
