## 223 - Two Hundred Twenty-Three
> (prime)

### [Kabzeel](/keys/QBTzAL) - קבצאל
> gathering of God, God has gathered. In the Zohar [Prologue 6A-6B], this word is said to represent the concentration of the Limitless Light in the first Sephirah (Kether). [2 Samuel 23:20](http://biblehub.com/2_samuel/23-20.htm): *"And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man, of Kabzeel, who had done many acts, he slew two lion like man of Moab: he went down also and slew a lion in the midst of a pit in the snow."*

> [Benaiah](/keys/BN.IH), בן יה, Ben Yah, "son of God" is also a metathesis of Binah BINH. [Jehoiada](/keys/IHOIDA) יהעידא ("Jah knoweth") = 100 = Qoph and KP, also כלים vessels; meaning "Jehovah known" [Zohar] "Contains an allusion to wisdom" [Case]: "Because [Benaiah](/keys/BNIHV), בניהו, contains BN, son = 52, and appellation of Tiphareth, combined with IHV = 21 = AHIH, the Kether divine name. 52 + 21 = 73 = [Chokmah](/keys/ChKMH) חכמה, wisdom"

> [Zohar] "Kabzeel, from the highest and hidden grade where 'no eye hath ever seen, etc.'" [Isaiah 64:3](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/64-3.htm) *"When thou didst terrible things which we looked not. For, thou camest down, the mountains flowed down at thy presence."* [Zohar] "A grade which contains the whole and which is the focus of the supernal light and from which everything issues." Thus Kabzeel קבצאל is the central point which is called אני [Leviticus 19:30](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/19-30.htm). *"Upon which rests the unknown, the most high, the unrevealed one which is IHVH, both being one."* [Zohar 1:p.24]. This point is the palace of holiness in the midst, referred to in Sepher Yetzirah to Tav = the place of God, described in the Clementine Homilies as 'that-which-is-not", or in Hebrew אין, the metathesis of אני. see [61](61), [271](271) (Greek).

> [Leviticus 19:30](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/19-30.htm): "Therefore shall ye keep my ordiance, that ye commit not any one of these abominable customs, which were committed before you, and that ye defile not yourselves therein: I am the Lord your God."

### [hiyah beraw](/keys/HIH.BRA) - היה ברא
> to be, to create. The inner meaning is "the essential characteristic of being is creativeness."

### [kobed ehben vaynoter hachol](/keys/KBD.ABN.VNTL.HChVL) - כבד אבן ונטל החול
> "A stone is heavy, and the land weighty", (but a fool's wrath is heaver than them both") [Proverbs 27:3](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/27-3.htm). see [873](873).

### [ha-Briah](/keys/HBRIAH) - הבריאה
> the Creation. Refers of Heh, the 15th Path as the "essence of creation". see [423](423).

### [ab roke](/keys/AB.RK) - אב רך
> Father of tenderness; Father R.C.

### [abreach](/keys/ABRK) - אברך
> tender father. [Genesis 41:43](http://biblehub.com/genesis/41-43.htm); young married man. Refers to the founder of the Rosicrucian order "Father R.C.", which in Hebrew, would be אב רך.

### [ain od milabaddo](/keys/AIN.OVD.MLBDV) - אין עוד מלבדו
> "none else beside him." [Deuteronomy 4:35](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/4-35.htm): *"Unto thee it was showed, that thou mightest know that the Lord He is God; there is none else beside him."* see [878](878).

### See Also:

- [7](7)