## 226 - Two Hundred Twenty-Six
(2x113).

---

### [ve-yeradu](/keys/VIRDV) - וירדו
> "And let them have dominion". [Genesis 1:26](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-26.htm): *"And God [Elohim] said, let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and ... over all the earth, etc."* The "fish" are connected with the reproductive power of Nun. see [50](50), [106](106), [700](700).

> Dominion is connected with Saturn, represented by Tav. see [400](400), [406](406), [713](713).

---

### [debareka](/keys/DBRK) - דברך
> thy word [Psalm 119:105](http://biblehub.com/psalms/119-105.htm). *"I have refrained my feet from every evil way, that I might keep thy word."* Connected with פה, [mouth](/keys/PH). see [85](85), [80](80), [549](549), [876](876), [95](95), [706](706), [749](749).

---

### [tzawphon](/keys/TzPVN) - צפון
> north, dark, hidden, profound, north wind. The direction of the letter [Peh](/keys/P) and the [27th Path](27) of the Exciting Intelligence. According to the Qabalists, [Job 37:22](http://biblehub.com/job/37-22.htm) should be read: *"Gold comes from the North."* The AM translation renders it *"From the North Golden Brightness Comes."* This agrees with Ezekiel's description of the whirlwind ([549](549)).

> But [Jeremiah 1:14](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/1-14.htm) says: *"Out of the North shall trouble be blown upon all the inhabitants of this land."* And the symbolism of [Key 16](16) is a representation of this.

> Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K.] gives [septentrio](/latin?word=septentrio) [relating to the number 7?], [reconditum](/latin?word=reconditum) [conceal]; who says also that the second of these names is occasionally applied to the Elohim, for with the living, beneficence flowing form Chesed, which is always open, the enriched wealth of good is drawn out. A long discourse follows.

---

### [tzawfoon](/keys/TzPVN) - צפון
> treasure, store; hidden; kept stored. Basically the hidden region.

---

### [R.C. + B. + D.](/keys/RK.B.D) - רך ב ד
The three Rosicrucian brethren who remained after the Rosicrucian Agreement was struck and five of the brothers departed: *"These six articles they bound themselves one to another to keep; five of the Brethren departed, only the Brethren B. and D. remained with the Fater, Brother R.C., a whole year."* [[Fama Fraternitatis](https://archive.org/details/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985)]. See [25](25) (Lt).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Ego dominus faciens omnia haec](/latin?word=Ego+dominus+faciens+omnia+haec) (Lt)
> [Isaiah 45:7 Vulgate](https://www.biblestudytools.com/parallel-bible/passage/?q=isaiah+45:7&t=vul&t2=kjv): *"I Lord (IHVH) do all these things."* Here is a direct connection with the idea of the exciting intelligence, and with פה, the mouth, as the uttering Logos which fashions everything in the manifested universe. see [85](85).

---

### See Also:

- [10](10)
- [1](1)
