## 237 - Two Hundred Thirty-Seven
> (3x79)

---

### [Aleph-Yod-Nun](/keys/ALP.IVD.NVN) - אלף יוד נון
> Ain, En, First Veil of the Absolute spelled in full. The "Essence of Glory" is really the No-thing, the rootless root of all manifestation. see [61](61).

---

### [etzem ha-kabode](/keys/OTzM.HKBVD) - עצם הכבוד
> essence of glory, referring to the [13th path](13). The gravitational force of the radiant energy concentrated in Kether. see [37](37), [200](200).

---

### [Gimel-Mem-Lamed](/keys/GML.MIM.LMD) - גמל מים למד
> Letter name Gimel spelt in full. see [882](882), [73](73).

---

### [qeppaon](/keys/QPAVN) - קפאון
> dark. [Zechariah 14:6](http://biblehub.com/zechariah/14-6.htm): *"And it shall come to pass in the day (of the Lord) that the light shall not be clear, nor dark."* The Gnostic adoration says God is "Lord (IHVH) of the light and of the darkness." "Day" indicates manifestation "dark" is here the light is formulated, i.e. in the Ain Suph Aur (Limitless Light).

---

### [la-aur](/keys/LAVR) - לאור
> the light. [Genesis 1:5](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-5.htm): *"and God called the light day."*

---

### [Rahal](/keys/RAHAL) - ראהאל
> "God who sees all." 69th Shemhamphorash; angel of the 3 of Cups (Binah of Briah). 341-345 CHRONTARE-Jupiter. May 27, August 7, October 18, December 29, March 11. 10:40-11:00 PM. [Psalm 16:4](http://biblehub.com/psalms/16-4.htm): *"Their sorrows shall be multiplied who hasten after another God: their drink-offering of blood will I not offer, nor take up their names unto my lips."*

> To recover things lost or stolen, and to discover the person who took them. Rules renoun, fortune and inheritance, influences jurist, magistrates, barristers, advocates and notaries. Person born: distinguishes himself at the bar, and by his knowledge of customs, usages and sprit of the laws of all nations. see [965](965), [1525](1525), [206](206).

> According to Godwin, this is the angel of the 3rd quinance (11 - 15) of Cancer, and angel by day of the 3 of Cups, or Saturn in the creative world of desire. Davidson gives the name as Rehael, and say he is *"an angel of the Order of Powers. he rules over health and longevity, and inspire respect for one's parents... his corresponding angel is Ptechout."* [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.243]

---

### [Resh + Yekhidah](/keys/R.IChIDH) - ר יחידה
> The solar face (the Ego) + the I Am (the Self). see [200](200), [37](37).

---

### [Suiosal](/keys/SVIOSAL) - סויעסאל
> Angel ruling 9th house of Sagittarius. see [800](800), [162](162), [320](320), [19](19), [322](322), [941](941), [271](271), [15](15).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [oculus, trygono, gloria](/latin?word=oculus+trygono+gloria) (Lt)
> eye, triangle, glory. Pictured on the reverse of the Great Seal of the U.S. The No-thing finds expression as appearance (the eye), as the three supernals (the triangle), and as the radiant energy which is the substance of all things and, at the same time, the gravitation of weight which holds together the world of name and form (the glory). see [81](81), [100](100), [56](56).

---

### [Water-Stone of the Wise](/english?word=Water-Stone+of+the+Wise) (English)
[Secret Symbols of the Rosicrucians, p1](https://archive.org/details/SecretSymbolsOfTheRosicrucians/page/n2): *"Now since this Man, whom the All-wise GOD has inspired thereto, hath this high and profound secret Work and the great secret of the ancient **Water-Stone of the Wise**," he must needs prove himself aright.*

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
- [Bible Wheel: 237](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=237)
