## 238 - Two Hundred Thirty-Eight
> (2x7x17) Paul Case gave 4x5x238 = 4760 = ἐπίγνωσιν τοῦ μυστηρίου τοῦ Θεοῦ _"An exact knowledge of the secret of God."_ [Colossians 2:2](https://biblehub.com/colossians/2-2.htm). However, it's meaning still applies to this gematria: _("That there hearts might be comforted, being knit together in love, and unto all riches of the full assurance of understanding, to the acknowledgment of the mystery of God, and of the Father, and of Christ")_. The mystery of God has to do with the secret nature of the four words, with the Tree of Life and with the light that emanates from the Lord. see [1178](1178), [484](484) (Greek).

---

### [waybarek](/keys/VIBRK) - ויברך
And blessed. [Genesis 1:28](https://biblehub.com/genesis/1-28.htm): *"And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth."*

---

### [wayapel yahweh elohim](/keys/VIPL.IHVH.ALHIM) - ויפל יהוה אלהים
"And the LORD God caused to fall". ([Genesis 2:21](https://biblehub.com/genesis/2-21.htm)): *"And the LORD God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept: and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof;"*

---

### [Resh + Gawlaw](/keys/R.GLH) - ר גלה
> The head of man plus the word meaning "to lay bare, to denude, to strip of concealment; to open a book." Enlightenment opens the head of man to an influx of radiant energy from the heart, connected with Resh.

    "Then shall the vision of thy Lord be granted unto thee,
       and seeing him shalt thou behold
       the shining one
       who is thine own true self".
    [Book of Tokens, Samekh]

    "Yea, in that day
       shalt thou sing unto the Lord a new Song,
     A song of rejoicing in his beautiful countenance,
       the face of thine own true self."
    [Book of Tokens, Resh]

> Adon he-nephalaoh, cont. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.26-27] gives: dominus ?miraklum? and links it with Netzach, which receives the wonderful influx of virtues from Chokmah.

---

### [Rachal](/keys/RChL) - רחל
> Wife of Jacob and mother of joseph and Benjamin. The Standard Bible Dictionary (pp.759-760) states that *"In the patriarchal narrative 'Rachel' undoubtably has a tribal as well as personal significance, for about her are grouped five northern tribes -- Ephraim, and Manasseh (= Joseph), Benjamin, Dan and Naphtals."* These correspond respectively, in alchemy to Taurus and congelation, Aquarius and dissolution, Sagittarius and incineration, Scorpio and putrefaction and Virgo and distillation. see [331](331), [395](395), [162](162), [54](54), [570](570).

> Inman says Rachel means "a nursing mother". This is appropriate, for she is associated with a cycle of 7 and with processes that nurture the soul towards illumination. Jacob means "supplanter". see [182](182).

---

### ['itzbownek](/keys/OTzBVNK) - עצבונך
thy sorrow. [Genesis 3:16](https://biblehub.com/genesis/3-16.htm): *"Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children; and thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [ademonein](/greek?word=adhmonein) (Gr) - ἀδημονεῖν
deeply distressed. [Matthew 26:37](https://biblehub.com/matthew/26-37.htm): *"And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and very heavy."*

---

### [sapientiae et doctrinae filii](/latin?word=sapientiae+et+doctrinae+filii) (Lt)
> Wise men and sons of the doctrine [Secret Symbols, page 21].

---

### See Also:

- [13](13)
- [4](4)
- [BibleWheel: 238](https://www.biblewheel.com/GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=238)
