## 243 - Two Hundred Forty-Three
> (3x3x3x3x3)

---

### [Abram](/keys/ABRM) - אברם
High Father. The original name of Abraham before entering a covenant with Yahweh. see [644](644). See [Genesis 12](http://biblehub.com/esv/genesis/12.htm).

- [Genesis 13:12](https://biblehub.com/genesis/13-12.htm): *"Abram dwelled in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelled in the cities of the plain, and pitched his tent toward Sodom"*
- [1 Chronicles 1:27](https://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/1-27.htm): *"Abram; the same is Abraham"*

---

### [Netzach + Hod + Yesod](/keys/NTzCh.HVD.ISVD) - נצח הוד יסוד
> Victory + Splendor + Foundation. Names of the three of the four personality sephiroth corresponding to the desire nature or emotions (Venus), the lower mind or intellect (Mercury), and the astral body or automatic consciousness (Moon). These 3 must be purified, balanced and integrated with the physical body (Malkuth) before the birth of the higher self can take place.

---

### [Marbas](/keys/MARB) - מארב
> according to Godwin, Goetic demon by day of the 2nd decanate of Taurus. The letters of the demon's name suggest the power of the stable mental substance (Mem) in misusing the undisciplined activity of spirit (Aleph) to influence solar regenerative power (Resh) in acts of selfish concentration (Beth). The 2nd decanate of Taurus is ruled by Mercury and has the qualities: deliberate, constructive, conservative. The influence of the demon suggest conscious imbalance, resulting in negative aspect of these qualities. In the Tarot minor arcana this decanate is attributed to the 6 of pentacles. This represents the operation of Tiphareth, sphere of the sun and central ego, in Assiah, the material world of action. The influence of the demon can indicate loss thorough writings, travel, diplomacy, speaking, teaching, commissions, advertising, study, books and all things ruled by Mercury. The remedy is to realize that the one life is above and within human personality, and to adopt a receptive, devotional attitude depicted by the figures who kneel before the hierophant.

---

### [gerem](/keys/GRM) - גרם
> *bone, strong. From גרם [garam](/keys/GRM); a bone (as the skeleton of the body); hence, self, i.e. (figuratively) very -- bone, strong, top.*

> also גרם: *gnaw the bones, break. A primitive root; to be spare or skeleton-like; used only as a denominative from [gerem](/keys/GRM); (causative) to bone, i.e. Denude (by extensive, craunch) the bones -- gnaw the bones, break.*  [Strong's Condordance]

---

### [Jubela, Jubelo, Jubelum](/keys/IBLA.IBLO.IBLVM) - יבלא יבלע יבלום
> Three brothers and men of Tyre, wild formed part of the conspiracy to murder Hiram Abiff, architect of King Solomon's temple. Part of the third degree of Freemasonry. The gematria is certainly significant. see [194](194).

---

### [beram](/keys/BRAM) - בראם
he created them. [Genesis 5:2](https://biblehub.com/genesis/5-2.htm): *"Male and female created he them; and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the day when they were created."*

---

### [wayizkor](/keys/VIZKR) - ויזכר
And remembered.

- [Genesis 8:1](https://biblehub.com/genesis/8-1.htm): *"And God remembered Noah, and every living thing, and all the cattle that was with him in the ark: and God made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters asswaged"*
- [Genesis 30:22](https://biblehub.com/genesis/30-22.htm): *"And God remembered Rachel, and God hearkened to her, and opened her womb."*
- [Genesis 42:9](https://biblehub.com/genesis/42-9.htm): *"And Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed of them, and said unto them, Ye are spies; to see the nakedness of the land ye are come"*
- [Psalms 78:39](https://biblehub.com/psalms/78-39.htm): *"For he remembered that they were but flesh; a wind that passeth away, and cometh not again"*
- [Psalms 106:45](https://biblehub.com/psalms/106-45.htm): *"And he remembered for them his covenant, and repented according to the multitude of his mercies."*
- [Isaiah 63:11](https://biblehub.com/isaiah/63-11.htm): *"Then he remembered the days of old, Moses, and his people, saying, Where is he that brought them up out of the sea with the shepherd of his flock? where is he that put his holy Spirit within him?"*

---

### [gomer](/keys/GMR) - גמר
Gomer. "complete." Son of [Japheth](/keys/IPTh). [Ezekiel 38:6](https://biblehub.com/ezekiel/38-6.htm): *"Gomer, and all his bands; the house of Togarmah of the north quarters, and all his bands: and many people with thee."*

Also, wife of Hosea. see [eth-gomer](/keys/ATh-GMR). [Hosea 1:3](https://biblehub.com/hosea/1-3.htm): *"So he went and took **Gomer** the daughter of Diblaim; which conceived, and bare him a son."*

---

### [yarkibehu](/keys/IRKBHV) - ירכבהו
he made him ride. [Deuteronomy 32:13](https://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/32-13.htm): *"**He made him ride** on the high places of the earth, that he might eat the increase of the fields; and he made him to suck honey out of the rock, and oil out of the flinty rock"*

Notice the phrase OIL OUT OF THE FLINTY ROCK. The Israelites were extracting oil from the Sinai desert.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Domus Sancti Spiritus](/latin?word=Domus+Sancti+Spiritus) (Lt)
> House of the Holy Spirit. In the Rosicrucian allegory (Fama) the meeting place of the order, built by brother C.R., which shows the real nature of the undertaking announced by the manifestoes. *"In the last paragraph of the Fama it is mentioned again, where we read: 'also our building, although one 100,000 people had very near seen and beheld the same, shall forever remain untouched, undestroyed and hidden to the wicked world... Let it be ours to affirm that it is a real building, though unseen; more marvelous than any of this world's other wonders. The way to it stands open today, as in the past, and... None shall fail to find it who seek diligently, in the right direction. And the path which leads to it is the path pictured in the 18th Tarot Key."* [True and Invisible, page 155-156].

> *"The notion that the house of the Holy Spirit is open but on one day of the year would be far from true. Those who know the way to it may visit it as easily in January as in June. Yet it may not be saying too much to declare that the hundredth day of the astrological year is actually a date of special importance, on which Rosicrucians from all over the world do "meet" in the house of the holy spirit. This they can do through their physical bodies may be separated by thousands of miles."* [PFC: OP. Cit. page 169]. see [220](220), [119](119), [60](60), [64](64) Latin, [867](867).

---

### [fraternitas roseae crucis](/latin?word=fraternitas+roseae+crucis) (Lt)
> brotherhood of the rosy cross; i.e. the true and invisible Rosicrucian order. see [119](119), [124](124), [238](238) (Latin)

---

### See Also:

- [9](9)
- [Bible Wheel: 243](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=243)
