## 245 - Two Hundred Forty-Five
> (5x7x7)

---

### [Marah](/keys/MRH) - מרה
> "bitter". The name of a well in [Exodus 15:23](http://biblehub.com/exodus/15-23.htm): *"When they came to marah, they culd not dirink its water because it was bitter. (That is why the place is called Marah) (24) So the people grumbled against Moses, and said 'What are we to drink?' (25) Then Moses cried out to the Lord, and the Lord showed him a piece of wood, He threw it into the water, and the water became sweet."* see [250](250), [290](290), [440](440).

---

### [Adom Qadmon](/keys/ADM.QDMVN) - אדם קדמון
> the archetypal or archetypal man. see [45](45), [200](200), [101](101).

---

### [Ruach El](/keys/RVCh.AL) - רוח אל
> "Spirit of God". What is in the heights is behind Adam Qadmon, both bitter and sweet and "adorned with glory". [Job 33:4](http://biblehub.com/job/33-4.htm) *"The Spirit of God hath made me, and the breath of the Almighty hath given me life."* see [214](214), [31](31).

---

### [kawl-penay ha-adamah](/keys/KL-PNI.HADMH) - כל־פני האדמה
> "The whole face of the ground". [Genesis 2:6](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-6.htm) *"But there went up a mist form the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground."*

> F.J. Mayers comments: *"Whatever it was that 'emanated' from the earth (AD, 5) it was something that had to make its influence felt in the 'Adamah'- something of a spiritual nature; it was something that had to take part in preparing the spiritual element from which 'Adam' was to be formed. We have already seen that Adam was created as a universal spiritual being, and also as a human kingdom of individuals of a physical plane. It was necessary then that Adam should be first formed in the spirit world, of spiritual 'human' elements, and then attracted to the physical plane to be 'formed' into physical individual men and women... At the point which our study of the narrative has reached a connection had to be formed between the physical plane 'earth' and the Adamah, so a 'focre' or 'influence' 'emanated' from the earth and ascended into the spiritual plane, contacted it and was absorbed by it. The earthly and the spiritual (to use the suggestions conveyed by the word Ishekah) embraced or kissed one another, inclined themselves to one another so that a mutual attraction linked or kissed one another, inclined themselves to one another so that a mutual attraction linked them together."* [The Unknown God, pp.118-119]

---

### [ha-nitzanim](/keys/HNTzNIM) - הנצנים
> "the blossom". In the Prologue to the Zohar [I:p.3] *"Rabbi Simeon opened his discourse with the text: The blossoms appeared on the earth, etc. 'The blossoms', he said 'refer to the work of creation. Appeared on the earth: when? On the third day, as it is written, "and the earth brought forth" They thus then appeared of the earth.'"*

---

### [wayhi-yered](/keys/VIHI-IRD) - ויהי־ירד
and lived Jared.

- [Genesis 5:18](https://biblehub.com/genesis/5-18.htm): *"And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two years, and he begat Enoch"*
- [Genesis 5:19](https://biblehub.com/genesis/5-19.htm): *"Jared lived after he fathered Enoch 800 years and had other sons and daughters"*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Sapiente et doctrinae Filis](/latin?word=Sapiente+et+doctrinae+Filis) (Lt)
> Wise men and sons of the doctrine [Secret Symbols, page 20].
