## 248 - Two Hundred Forty-Eight
> (8x31)

---

### [Abraham](/keys/ABRHM) - אברהם
> Old Testament name; father of many nations. Formed from the original אברם, [Abram](/keys/ABRM) (high father), by interpolating of the letter Heh (5), between אבר (word meaning: wind, pinion, but interpreted as meaning: membrum, phallus), and the letter Mem, which signifies the feminine substance (water) of Binah. A definite relation between the occult meaning of Abraham and the idea of the perpetuation of the species connected with Nun. see [50](50), [250](250).

---

### [Auriel](/keys/AVRIAL) - אוריאל
> Light of God. Archangel associated with Northern quarter of the Heavens and the Earth. He is the Light-bearer (Lucifer) of manifestation. The light carried is that limitless light of the Ain Soph Aur. Composed of אור, Light, followed by Yod, the hand and אל, the might (of God). Thus Uriel may be read *"The Light is the hand and strength of God."* Angel of the element Earth. Corresponds to the animal soul, or body-consciousness, nephesh.

> "Light of the Creative Powers." Angel of Netzach. [1 Chronicles 6:24](http://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/6-24.htm): *"(The sons of Livi-son of Kohath) Tahath his son, Uriel his son."* [Derived from אור, light, brightness, daylight, break of day; happiness, joy = אור fire, flame, enlightenment, revelation]. see [31](31), [207](207), [251](251), [548](548) (Greek), [618](618) (Greek). Also Planetary Angel of Da'th.

---

### [nodaw bi-Yehudah Elohim](/keys/NVDO.BIHVDH.ALHIM) - נודע ביהודה אלהים
> "in Judah is God known". [Psalm 76:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/76-1.htm): *"In Judah is God [Elohim] known: his name is great in Israel."* Judah is connected with Leo an with alchemical digestion. see [30](30), [932](932), [1180](1180).

---

### [be-marah](/keys/BMRAH) - במראה
> "In vision." Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.553] says the metathesis of the phrase is Abraham.
>
>     Then shall the vision of thy Lord be granted unto thee,
>       And seeing him shalt thou behold
>       The Shining One
>       Who is thine own true Self.
>     In the fullness of that blessed vision
>       Shalt thou be restored,
>     And as a young lion trampleth upon his prey,
>     So shalt thou conquer all the phantoms of delusion.
> *[Book of Tokens, Samekh]*

---

### [gemarah](/keys/GMRH) - גמרה
> teaching, tradition. Probably from the Aramaic גמרא, [gemara](/keys/GMRA): teaching, study, tradition; the amaraic portion of the Talmud.

---

### [rawkham](/keys/RChM) - רחם
> to love. Also rikhame: to pity, to have compassion with; rekhem: womb. Poetically: maiden, woman.

---

### [romakh](/keys/RMCh) - רמח
> spear, lance.

---

### [khawram](/keys/ChRM) - רמח
> to make a net; to swear; to shut in. Also khaerem: thing devoted, banned, forbidden; destruction, net; fishpond; curse, excommunication.

---

### [khawmar](/keys/ChMR) - חמר
> to seethe, to foam; to burn; parch; to pile up, to coil up. Also khomer: loam, clay, mortar, sealing wax; material; heap; pile; a dry measure; seventy; stringency.

---

### [khemer](/keys/ChMR) - חמר
> red wine. Also khammawr: ass driver. The ass is a symbol of the alchemical first matter.

---

### [Raziel](/keys/RZIAL) - רזיאל
> "Secret of God", "Angel of Mysteries". Archangel associated with Chokmah. The personification of Chokmah, one of the 9 archangels in the Briatic world, chief of the Order of Aralim. [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels] variant spelling, see [331](331).

---

### [liqetu aebawnim](/keys/LQTV.ABNIM) - לקטו אבנים
> "gather stones" [Genesis 31:45](http://biblehub.com/genesis/31-45.htm): *"And Jacob took a stone and set it up as a memorial pillar."* [46](http://biblehub.com/genesis/31-46.htm) *"And Jacob said to his brethren; gather stones; and they took stones, and made an heap: and they did eat there upon the heap."*

---

### [Bamidbar](/keys/BMDBR) - במדבר
> In the wilderness; Hebrew of the Book of Numbers. [Godwin] see [246](246).

---

### [Adam + beraw](/keys/ADM+BRA) - אדם ברא
> Humanity plus to create. Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.29] says: *"The three that bear witness, above and beneath, respectively. אדם the spirit, the water and the blood; Aleph being air (spiritus), Daleth standing for דם blood, and Mem being both water and the initial of מים, water."* see [45](45), [203](203).

---

### [haluqeiy aebawnim](/keys/HLQI.ABNIM) - הלקי אבנים
> "smooth stones". [1 Samuel 17:40](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/17-40.htm).

---

## Latin/Greek:

---

### [gegrammena](/greek?word=gegrammena) (Gr) - γεγραμμένα
"what is written". [Revelation 1:3](http://biblehub.com/revelation/1-3.htm): *"Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear, and who keep **what is written** in it, for the time is near."*

---

### [pelion](/greek?word=Phlion) (Gr) - πηλιον
> A mountain in Thessaly.

---

### [Shem](/greek?word=shm) (Gr) - Σὴμ
> [Luke 3:36](http://biblehub.com/luke/3-36.htm).

---

### See Also:

- [14](14)
- [5](5)
