## 254 - Two Hundred Fifty-Four
> (2x127)

### [yammah rabah](/keys/IMA.RBA) - ימא רבא
> Great Sea [Daniel 7:2](http://biblehub.com/daniel/7-2.htm). This expression is "upon the Great sea," and ימא, is prefixed by Lamed, which would be [284](284). see also [99](99).

### [Khuram, Huram](/keys/ChVRM) - חורם
> Hiram Abiff (II Chronicles) used in Masonry. Personification of the Christos in the Rosicrucian allegory. Analyzed as חור, [Hur](/keys/ChVR), whiteness, and רם, [Ram](/keys/RM), Height. Thus (C)Hiram, the Christos, is seen to be a reflection of the white height of Kether, just as the Ego is Tiphareth is a reflection of the Self, in Kether. The first two letters חו, is to [14](14) (David, beloved), the third is Sol, and the last is water. see [130](130), [19](19), [273](273).

> [1 Kings 7:13](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/7-13.htm): *"And king Solomon sent and fetched Hiram out of Tyre."*

### [matawrah](/keys/MTRH) - מטרה
> a mark, aim, target; purpose, prison, dungeon.

### [chemor](/keys/ChMVR) - חמור
> an ass, donkey, jackass.

### [neder](/keys/NDR) - נדר
> a solemn promise, vow, thing vowed, votive offering or sacrifice; Nadar: to vow.

### [nerayddeh](/keys/NRD) - נרד
> spiknard, nard. [Canticles 4:13](http://biblehub.com/songs/4-13.htm): *"Thy plants are an orchard of pomegranates, with pleasant fruits; camphor, with spikenard."* (From Latin Spika, a spike, and narous, an aromatic root.) A fragrant oil or ointment derived from the roots of this plant. Used in India as a perfume for the hair, also the plant itself, Nard.

### [rachum](/keys/RChVM) - רחום
> merciful, compassionate. Also rawchum: beloved, dear, favorite. Chesed is the sphere of the merciful ones. "His Mercy endureth forever." In [Exodus 34:6](http://biblehub.com/exodus/34-6.htm): *"And the Lord passed by before him, and proclaimed: 'The Lord, the Lord, the God merciful and compassionate, long suffering, and abundant in goodness and truth'"* (and Moses fell down and worshipped). And in [Joel 2:13](http://biblehub.com/joel/2-13.htm) *"And rend your hearts and not your garments, and turn to the Lord your God; for he is gracious and merciful, patient and of great kindness, and he averts disaster."*

### [rumach](/keys/RVMCh) - רומח
> a spear. Note connection between Cain (pointed, spear), which is the delusion caused by the lower mind (Mercury, sphere of Hod, path of Ayin) when it is not connected to cosmic memory (Jupiter, sphere of Chesed) by the path of Yod, or divine will.

### [Zuriel](/keys/ZVRIAL) - זוריאל
> Geomantic intelligence of Libra. This sign has rulership of Venus and is connected with equilibrium and alchemical sublimation. Godwin gives: Archangel of Libra. Davidson says the names signifies "my rock is God". he also gives: Prince of the Order of Principalities, ruler of the sign Libra..., and one of the 70 childbed amulet angels; also a curer of stupidity in man. When equated with Uriel, he is angel of September. In [Numbers 3:35](http://biblehub.com/numbers/3-35.htm) Zuriel is 'chief of the house of the father of the families of Merari." [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.331] see [501](501).

### [baali ha-qabalah](/keys/BOLI.HQBLH) - בעלי הקבלה
> Master of the Qabalah. The great mystics who are able to attune themselves to the Christos though receptivity to the "Great Sea". see [137](137), [244](244).

### [le-olahm chesedu](/keys/LOVLM.ChSDV) - לעולם חסדו
> "His mercy endureth forever". [Psalm 136:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/136-1.htm) *"O give thanks unto the Lord; for he is good; for his mercy endureth forever."* Chesed is the sephirah of mercy and is associated with the grade of master of compassion (exempt adept). These are those Chasidim who are receptive to the 3rd order from Binah, across the "abyss" separating Binah from Chesed. see [72](72). [Note: this phrase occurs 6 times in Chronicles, once in Ezra, 3 times in Psalms, once in Jeremiah, [42](42) (6x7) in all. Note the implication as to ChSD].

### [tzadiqim](/keys/TzDIQIM) - צדיקים
> "the righteous". [Psalm 34:15](http://biblehub.com/psalms/34-15.htm) *"The eyes of the Lord are upon (toward) the righteous, and his ears are open unto their cry."* Note that צדק [Tzedeq](/keys/TzDQ) is Jupiter, the sphere of Chesed. [This verse in the Psalm is assigned to Ain, the eye, or outward appearance] see [166](166), [728](728); [715](715) (Greek).

### [baruch IHVH](/keys/BRVK.IHVH) - ברוך יהוה
> "blessed be IHVH". [Genesis 9:26](http://biblehub.com/genesis/9-26.htm): *"And he [Noah] said, blessed be the Lord God of Shem; and Canan shall be his servant."* Shem was the ancestor of the Semites, including the tribes of Israel; Cain means "lance, spear" and refers to the false crown of will-power (Canaan is the land of Cain); Noah means "rest, cessation." see [340](340), [160](160), [58](58).

### [Garudiel](/keys/GRVDIAL) - גרודיאל
> Angel of the 3rd decanate of Aquarius. This decanate is ruled by Venus (or creative imagination and desire), and suggest the qualities: brotherly, humane, polite. Loving and friendly qualities in humanitarian and social work are needed to raise intellect into larger ares of remembrance.

### [Elohi Yizaq](/keys/ALHI.ITzChQ) - אלהי יצחק
> "God of Isaac". see [208](208), [294](294), [228](228). [Exodus 3:6](http://biblehub.com/exodus/3-6.htm): *"Moreover he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face; for he was afraid to look upon God."* The God of Isaac ["He laughs"] is the God of laughter, also of preservation (Isaac saved from sacrifice). Isaac, moreover, is especially the son. Note that the God of Isaac the son was merciful to both Isaac and Abraham. (רחום [rahum](/keys/RChVM) = 254 = merciful)

### See Also:

- [11](11)
- [2](2)