## 255 - Two Hundred Fifty-Five
> ([5](5)x[51](51))

---

### [Nahar](/keys/NHR) - נהר
> a stream, river; to flow. The river with four heads which went out of Eden. [Genesis 2:10](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-10.htm) *"And a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from thence it was parted, and became into four heads."* Also used figuratively to denote prosperity. As a verb: to flow, to stream, to shine, beam, to sparkle, to be cheerful. see [1826](1826).

---

### [Haran](/keys/HRN) - הרן
Haran. "Mountainous". Son of [Terah](/keys/TRCh). see [255](255). [Genesis 11:26](https://biblehub.com/genesis/11-26.htm): *"And Terah lived seventy years, and begat Abram, Nahor, and **Haran**."*

> Also [haran](/keys/HRN): "parched by the sun"; also "a noble or fat man" [Inman]. A city in Chaldea, center of the worship of the moon-god Sin; temporary home of Abram. [Genesis 12:4](http://biblehub.com/genesis/12-4.htm): *"So Abram departed, as the Lord had spoken to him; and Lot went with him: and Abram was 75 years old when he departed out of Haran."* see [905](905).

---

### [Gibirim](/keys/GBRIM) - גברים
> "mighty men." [Genesis 6:4](http://biblehub.com/genesis/6-4.htm) *"There were giants in the earth in those days; and also after that, when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare children to them, the same became mighty men which were of old, men of renown."* see [815](815), [210](210), [770](770).

> Fabre D'Olivet renders this verse on page 179: *"And the Nephilites (distinguished, illustrious, noble men) were in-theearth by-the-days thoses: and also after-that-so (happened) that they-were-comem, the sons (spiritual offspring) of of-HIM-the- Gods, near-the-daughters (corporeal faculties) of-Adam (collective man) and-that-they-had-beggotend-throgh-them thosevery Ghiborites (mighty men, lords) who were of-old-old, corporeal men of-renoun."*

> And clarifies through his commentary:

> > *"And the Nephilim (elect among men, noble illustrious ones) were upon the earth in those days: and also after that sons (spiritual emanations) of Aelohim had come into (mingled with) daughter (corporeal faculties) of Adam (universal man) and they had produced through them those same Ghiborim (mighty men, those famous hyperboreans) who were of old, corporeal Adamah [#[50](50)] The word GBVR, here refered to, constitutes the fourth name that Moses gives to man: the second, that this hiergraphic writer, makes this superior man descend, by the union of divine emanations with natural forms, that is to say, in other terms, spiritual faculties joined to physical faculties.*

> > *The element from which he must draw his passive nature substance, is named after him, Adamah. Soon the divine spirit is united to his elementary spirit; he passes from power into action. The being of beings individualizes him by detaching from him his efficient volitive faculty and makes him thus, free, susceptible of realizing his own conception. The intellectual man, AISh, exists [#[311](311)].*

> > *The covetous passion, universal incentive of elementary nature, inevitably attacks thenceforth this volitive faculty, now isolated and free. Aisha, [#306] seduced and believing to take forth this possession of his active nature principle, gives way to the natural principle. Intellectual man is corrupted. His volitive faculty is changed into elementary existence, Hewah [Eve, #[19](19)]. Universal man, Adam, is decomposed and divided. His unity, passed first to number three in Kain [[160](160)], Habel [#[37](37)] and Sheth [[700](700)] goes to number six through Kain, and to number nine through Sheth. The corporeal faculties succeed to elementary existence. Corporeal man, AEnosh, [[357](357)] appears upon the cosmogonic scene.*

> > *In the meantime, the divine emanations are united to the corporeties born of the dissolution of Adam, and corporeal man gives place directly to superior man, Ghibor, [[211](211)], hero, demigod. Very soon this Ghibor, this superior man, abandons himself to evil, and his inevitable downfall brings about the repose of Nature.*

> > *Thus, in the profound thought of Moses, these four-hieroglyphic names succeed one another: ADM, universal man, AISh, intellectual man, ANVSh, corporeal man, GBVR superior man. And these four names so different in form and in signification, employed by Moses with an art more than human, have been rendered by the same word as synonyms!'"* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 179-183]

> The Zohar [I.25B] comments: *"The Gibborim (mighty ones) are those whom it is written: 'they are the might ones...men of name' [Genesis 6:4](http://biblehub.com/genesis/6-4.htm). They come from the side of those who said 'come, let us build a city and make to us a name' [Genesis 1:4](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-4.htm). These men erect synagogues and colleges, and place in them scrolls of the law with rich ornaments, but they do it not for the sake of God, but only to make themselves a name, and in consequence the powers of evil prevail over Israel, (who should be humble like the dust of the earth) according to the verse: 'And the waters prevailed very much upon the earth' [Genesis 7:19](http://biblehub.com/genesis/7-19.htm)."* (pp.99-100)

---

### [mizrakh](/keys/MZRCh) - מזרח
> east; eastern quarter of the heavens; sunrise. Assigned to the 11th path of Aleph and the direction assigned with the letter Daleth (both the Fool and the Empress have yellow hair bound by a green wreath). East is the place of sunrise, where a cycle of activity (day) begins. see [111](111).

---

### [Moriah](/keys/MRIH) - מריה
> seen of Yah [[Genesis 22:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/22-2.htm) and [2 Chron. 3:1](http://biblehub.com/2_chronicles/3-1.htm)]. The name of a hill in Palestine, the site of Solomon's Temple. The "Land of Moriah" is the place Abraham was directed to take his son, Isaac, for the sacrifice (see [471](471)).

---

### [remiyah](/keys/RMIH) - רמיה
> deceit, treachery; deceitfully. From a root meaning: to hurl (downward), to cause to fall. Its ordinary signification is: slackness, slothfulness, deceit, guile. A veiled reference to the idea that the creative process is, in a way, the result of a progressive series of slowing down. The intense vibrations of the higher aspects of the Life-power are made to become less and less rapid, and in so doing, the actually cool off and solidify. The objects which are by this cooling-off process made to appear are the source of illusions which deceive the mind of man, and lead it into all the negative attitudes which are covered by the word "guile."

---

### [rinawh](/keys/RNH) - רנה
> shout, cry, rejoicing, singing. The inward result of orienting the consciousness to the "east", source of the rivers. also, RNH to whizz, rattle. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.690] gives: cantatio elata and says it refers to justice, (according to [Psalm 33:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/33-1.htm) *"Sing joyfully to the Lord, you righteous; it is fitting for the upright to praise him.)"* since the influx belongs to Geburah.

---

### [Andar](/keys/ANDR) - אנדר
> night demon of the 3rd decanate of Sagittarius. This decanate has rulership of the sun, and suggest subconscious imbalance, resulting in disorder, faithlessness and deceitfulness.

---

### [Humra](/keys/ChVMRA) - חומרא
> burdensome, with difficulty. Given by Mathers, in [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 30]. Fabre D'Olivet writes of the first 3 letters: *"ChVM. Action of enveloping, seizing by a contractile movement, exercising upon something a compressive force; heating, rendering obscure. In a restrictive sense, a wall, because it encloses; a girdle, because it envelops; in general, every curved round figure; simulacrum of the sun, etc."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 352]

---

### [Hadoram](/keys/HDVRM) - הדורם
Hadoram. "Noble Honor". Son of [Joktan](/keys/IQTN). Grandson of [Eber](/keys/OBR). see [662](662). [Genesis 10:26](https://biblehub.com/genesis/10-26.htm): *"**And Hadoram**, and Uzal, and Diklah,"*

---

### [harim](/keys/HRIM) - הרים
the mountains.

- [Judges 5:5](https://biblehub.com/judges/5-5.htm): *"**The mountains** melted from before the LORD, even that Sinai from before the LORD God of Israel"*
- [Psalm 104:8](https://biblehub.com/psalms/104-8.htm): *"They go up by **the mountains**; they go down by the valleys unto the place which thou hast founded for them."*
- [Nahum 1:5](https://biblehub.com/nahum/1-5.htm): *"**The mountains** quake at him, and the hills melt, and the earth is burned at his presence, yea, the world, and all that dwell therein."*

---

### [mahari](/keys/MHRI) - מהרי
quickly prepare. [Genesis 18:6](https://biblehub.com/genesis/18-6.htm): *"And Abraham hastened into the tent unto Sarah, and said, **Make ready quickly** three measures of fine meal, knead it, and make cakes upon the hearth."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Centrum mundi, granum fundi](/latin?word=Centrum+mundi+granum+fundi) (Lt)
> Center of the World, see of the foundation. This is a free translation of the personal motto of the author of "The Golden Age Restored, an alchemical treatise included in Secret Symbols, page 20.

---

### [Verba secretorum hermetis](/latin?word=Verba+secretorum+hermetis) (Lt)
> The words of the Hermetic secrets, or more freely, the Hermetic secret discourse. Title of page 17 in Secret Symbols. The rest of the text on that page is a German translation of The Emerald Tablet illustrated by a diagram having round its circumference the words "Visita interiora terra, rectificando invenies occultum lapidem." see [570](570).

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
- [Bible Wheel: 255](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=255)
