## 256 - Two Hundred Fifty-Six
(2^8). [16](16)x[16](16).

---

### [nour](/keys/NVR) - נור
> fire (Aramaic and Chaldee form). Nun is Scorpio, governing the organs of sex. Vav is Taurus, and rules the neck, ears, and throat. It is the polarity and complementary opposite of Scorpio. Resh is the sun, ruling Leo and governing the heart, back and spinal cord. It is exalted in Aries, ruled by Mars and governing the Head and Brain. These are all important parts in the Great Work of Alchemy. see [301](301), [662](662).

---

### [Aaron](/keys/AHRN) - אהרן
> "Lofty". Elder brother of Moses. In the Bible he is the mouthpiece of Moses and like Hermes he has a rod which buds and becomes a serpent and swallows up the serpent-rods of the opposing priests. He stands between the living and the dead with a censer, and thus stays a plague. Inman in [Ancient Faiths Embodied in Ancient Names 176-179] links Aaron with אור [aur](/keys/AVR) or light and הור [hur](/keys/HVR). see [262](262), [206](206), [221](221), [642](642), [906](906), [891](891), [952](952) (Greek).

---

### [Amariah](/keys/AMRIH) - אמריה
"Promised by God." [2 Chronicles 19:11](http://biblehub.com/2_chronicles/19-11.htm): *"And, behold, Amariah the chief priest is over you in all matters of the LORD"* see [15](15), [26](26), [83](83).

> According to Inman, Amariah means "Jah decrees" from אמר [Amar](/keys/AMR), to say, command, a word, a lamb, a hymn or promise (with different points). [Ancient Faiths Embodied in Ancient Names, p.176-179] see [27](27) (Latin).

> Mackey calls this woard Amar-Jah, and translates it as "god spake". He says it is a significant word in the high degrees of the ancient and accepted rite. [Encoyclopaedia of Free-Masnory, p.61]

---

### [ehmirah](/keys/AMIRH) - אמירה
> Tidings; a saying speech. Metathesis of [Amariah](/keys/AMRIH). [K.D.L.C.K. p.128] *"Under this title the 'parents' are recognized to be under these words: there are various meanings, however, referring to Malkuth [[Psalm 68:11](http://biblehub.com/psalms/68-11.htm)]: 'the Lord gave the word (referring to Geburah): great was the company of those that announced it.'"* (Amiriah here refers to Tiphareth).

> Also proclamation; dedication. *"אמירה is, as it were (simple) speech, wherein there is required no especial uplifting of the voice"* [I.R.Q. 352] refers to the control of creativity through "speech".

---

### [beni tzedek](/keys/BNI.TzDQ) - בני צדק
> The sons of the righteous. see [194](194), [52](52), [62](62). Those who control and direct the secret "fire".

---

### [Mapulemin](/keys/MPVLMIN) - מפולמין
> Dampness or darkness. see [705](705). [K.D.L.C.K. p.20]. [Job 28:3](http://biblehub.com/job/28-3.htm): *"Man puts an end to the darkness; he searches the farthest recesses for ore in the blackest darkness."*

---

### [rokel](/keys/RVKL) - רוכל
> Trafficker, trader; seller of spices; peddler, hawker. We sell all we have for the "pearl of great price". According to Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.683] who gives: Aromatarius ths refers to Yesod, since within it are mingled every kind of influx.

---

### [ley geburah](/keys/LI.GBVRH) - לי גבורה
> "I have strength". [Proverbs 8:14](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/8-14.htm): *"Council is mine, and sound wisdom: I am understanding; I have strength."* The reward of the master of fire.

---

### [devarim](/keys/DBRIM) - דברים
> "words"; Hebrew title of Deuteronomy in the Bible, mostly dealing with an expansion of the mosaic code of law to Israel. The fifth book of the Bible, so called from its first words. This book sought to combine the teaching of prophesy with traditional practices of religious and social life, all attributed to Moses. see [816](816).

---

### [Abrakala](/keys/ABRAKALA) - אבראכאלא
> According to Godwin, the original form of Abracadabra.

---

### [hamori](/keys/HAMRI) - האמרי
The Amorite. "speakers." Sons of [Canaan](/keys/QNON). see [663](663). [Genesis 10:16](https://biblehub.com/genesis/10-16.htm): *"And the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgasite"*

---

### See Also:

- [13](13)
- [4](4)
- [Bible Wheel: 256](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=256)
