## 260 - Two Hundred Sixty
> (4x5x13). Constant summation of the Magic Square of Mercury.

---

### [tzimtsem](/keys/TzMTzM) - צמצם
> to contract or draw together; to be exact. Also: to compress, to condense, to reduce, stint, to be united, be restricted. Designates the process which initiates a cycle of the Life-power's manifestation, at the interior center (Kether). Thus it makes the field, or vineyard, wherein the universe is established. This is the technical Qabalistic term indicating the fundamental process of manifestation-the contraction of AIN SVP AVR into Kether being the first stage. Compare with eastern doctrine of privaton as method of manifestation. see [166](166), [46](46), [36](36), [252](252), [315](315), [154](154), [224](224), [266](266), [314](314), [29](29), [700](700).

---

### [veradim](/keys/VRDIM) - ורדים
> Roses. Flowers of Venus and symbols of desires, which, woven together intelligently, as shown in Key 8, may be used to control and direct the Lion-force of volition. see [220](220).

---

### [Tiriel](/keys/TIRIAL) - טיריאל
> Intelligence of Mercury. Designates the consciousness of the divine order which is the consequence of man's use of his objective mind as an instrument whereby he may link himself to the powers of superconsciousness. This angelic name means encompassed about by God and reminds us of Paul's quote: *"In him we move and breath and have our being."*

> From a root טור, toor, to encompass, surround, commonly found in angelic names. טור in the Mishnak period, and in Talmudic usage, means "mountain." In Aramaic it is טורא, mountain. thus the meaning of this name would be "encompassed about by God." AL as a suffix relates to the number 4, and the ideas of order, rule and beneficence. see [2080](2080), [8](8).

---

### [kerem](/keys/KRM) - כרם
> vineyard. An important mystical term. The vineyard is the "field" wherein Gepen, GPN, the vine is grown, from which comes the "blood of the grape". [Deuteronomy 32:14](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/32-14.htm). KRM conceals CR Kar, Lamb and RM, Ram, literally, "the High One." see [220](220), [166](166).

---

### [sar](/keys/SR) - סר
> rebellious, sad, sullen, heavy. The testing and trial of the higher Self (Samekh) reacting on the personality, to bring about regeneration (Resh). Godwin gives: ill-humored. Mathers: "declined" [Sepher Sephiroth, p.31]

> Fabre D'Olivet writes: *"The circumferential sign joined to that of movement proper, constitutes a root whence issue all ideas of disorder, perversion, contortion, apostasy; also those of force, audacity, return, education, new direction, etc... SR and SRR (comp.) That which is disordered, rebellious, refractory; which leaves its sphere to cause trouble, discord; that which is vehement, audacious, independent, strong: that which distorts, turns aside takes another direction; is corrected. contortion; also return, education, new direction."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.412] see [700](700).

---

### [Gerizim](/keys/GRZIM) - גרזים
> The mountain where 6 of the tribes of Isreal stood to bless [Godwin]. ([Deuteronomy 11:29](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/11-29.htm), [Joshua 8:33](http://biblehub.com/joshua/8-33.htm)).

---

### [hamoriah](/keys/HMRIH) - המריה
> The Moriah (i.e. Jerusalem, G.G. Locks). The land of Moriah was said to be the site of the sacrifice of Isaac, upon which the Temple of Solomon was later built ([2 Chron. 3:1](http://biblehub.com/2_chronicles/3-1.htm)).

---

### [monnim](/keys/MONNIM) - מעננים
> soothsayers.

---

### [rekil](/keys/RKIL) - רכיל
> talebearer.

---

### [hageborim](/keys/HGBRIM) - הגברים
> the mighty men. [From GBR, Aramaic for man, male; warrior; phallus; rooster.]

> Also, the men of renown. [Genesis 6:4](http://biblehub.com/genesis/6-4.htm): *"The Nephilim (giants) were on the earth in those days, and also afterward, when the sons of God came unto the daughters of men and bore children to them these became the mighty men which were of old the men of renown."* Note that these 'mighty ones" were the offspring of the "sons of God", or illuminated ones. The Higher self created them.

---

### [lepasilim](/keys/LPSILIM) - לפסילים
> ineptos it profanos. [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 31] "the inept and profane" ones. The inner meaning has to do with body cells which are unable to respond to the new pattern being cultivated.

---

### [temirah](/keys/TMIRA) - טמירא
> the concealed. in Qabalistic texts, such as the Zohar, Kether is often given the title of the concealed (with all concealments), thus indicating that its working, through subconsciousness are occult, or hidden.

> I:N:R (I.N.R). The first 3 initials of I.N.R.I the Rosicrucian (Latin) phrase represented by the four letters; one of whose meanings is alchemical: "the fire of nature (entirely) renews." see [270](270).

---

### [yerim](/keys/IRIM) - ירים
> exaltabitur, according to Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.455]. The meaning is: "shall be exalted", and he says it refers to Binah, since it is built above all the other sephiroth, among the supernals.

---

### [nayir](/keys/NIR) - ניר
> In ([1 Kings 11:36](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/11-36.htm)) "light" for posterity, rule: *"And to his son I will give one tribe, that there may be a light to David my servant always before me in Jerusalem, the city which I have chosen for myself to put my name there."* Translated "lamp" in the Interlinear Bible.

---

### [negaaim gedolim](/keys/NGOIM.GDLIM) - נגעים גדלים
great plagues. [Genesis 12:17](https://biblehub.com/genesis/12-17.htm): *"And the LORD plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai Abram's wife"*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [mehron](/greek?word=mhron) (Gr) - μηρὸν
> thigh (euphemism for the phallus). [Apocalypse 19:16](http://biblehub.com/revelation/19-16.htm): *"And he hath on his vesture and on his **thigh** a name written, KING OF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS."*.

> Closely associated with the 7th Path, which have to do with the generative and reproductive powers of the One Life. These forces in the human body which are the seat of strong desires must be controlled to win the victory whose reward is liberation. see [230](230), [710](710).

---

### [Benedictus Dominus Noster](/latin?word=Benedictus+Dominus+Noster) (Lt)
> Blessed be our Lord. Represents the total sum of the lines of an equilateral triangle (3x40 = [120](120)) and the line of a heptagon (7x20 = [140](140)). The triangle symbolizes the 3 supernal sephiroth, the heptagon the 7 subordinate sephiroth. Linked together by a circle surrounding them, which is [22](22), represents the letters of the Hebrew alphabet, the figure is a glyph of the 32 Paths of Wisdom, just as is the Tree of Life. see [140](140). A variant of a familiar Rosicrucian phrase. (Blessed is our Lord, who gave us a sign).

---

### See Also:

- [26](26)
- [8](8)
- [Bible Wheel: 260](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=260)

