## 265 - Two Hundred Sixty-Five
> (5x53)

---

### [Aur ha Khammaw](/keys/AVR.HChMH) - אור החמה
> Light of the sun. [Isaiah 30:26](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/30-26.htm). It has a bearing on certain facts of super-physical experience which are related to Binah.

---

### [yawm ha-qadmoni](/keys/IM.HQDMVNI) - ים הקדמוני
> the Primordial sea. Sphere of Saturn. Refers to Binah as being the Great Deep, or Abyss of Chaos. It is the deep mentioned in Genesis 1:2, where we read that darkness was on its face. see [52](52), [67](67).

---

### [makhabo-rauch](/keys/MChBA.RVCh) - מחבא רוח
> "a hiding-place from the wind". [Isaiah 32:2](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/32-2.htm): *"(Behold, a king shall reign in righteousness). And a man shall be as a hiding-place from the wind, and a covert from the tempest; as rivers of water in a dry place, as the shadow of a great rock in a weary land."* A prophecy referring to Jesus Christ. The Christ, or Messiah, the Anointed One, is represented by the sixth Sephirah, which is not only Ben, the Son, but also Ish, the Man. Thus we may understand that איש ([311](311)), in the passage from Isaiah, refers to Tiphareth. see [311](311); [3493](3493) (Greek).

---

### [Ieremiah](/keys/IRMIH) - ירמיה
> Old Testament prophet Jeremiah. Literally, "going up to the height of God", "God is exalted". Refers to the spiritual experience of those who have attained to the Rosicrucian grade corresponding to Binah (Master of the Temple). It is because of this experience that they are deserving of the Title, נגיד, [Nagiyd](/keys/NGID), prince, leader. see [67](67), [221](221) (Greek). (Spelled ירמיהו ([271](271)) on the text of Jeremiah.)

---

### [tzeoaqah](/keys/TzOQH) - צעקה
> prayer; cry, shout, call, complaint. typical expression of all prophets and sees who call to the Great Mother and receive guidance form the intuitional level. Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.31] gives: a cry of the heart, anguish, anxiety.

---

### [adrikal](/keys/ADRKL) - איסר
> architect [Mathers]. This word does not occur in scripture.

---

### [hawras](/keys/HRS) - הרס
> to pull down; broke down [Mathers]. In [Job 12:14](http://biblehub.com/job/12-14.htm): *"What he [God] tears down cannot be rebuilt; the man he imprisons cannot be released."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Mariam + heh aletheia](/greek?word=mariam+h+alhtheia) (Gr) - Μαριαμ η αληθεια
> Mary plus the truth. Mary, the mother of Christ means 'seas' and is related to the "Great Sea" Binah, or the cosmic mother. see [192](192), [72](72).

> The truth is the key to many mysteries, including that of the center, to which Saturn is related in the Cube of Space. Recall the occult correspondence between Saturn and Venus in Libra and follow this clue. see [64](64), [72](72), [441](441).

---

### See Also:

- [13](13)
- [4](4)
