## 267 - Two Hundred Sixty-Seven
> [3](3)x[89](89)

---

###  [Merkaz](/keys/MRKZ) - מרכז
Center.

---

### [Merkabah](/keys/MRKBH) - מרכבה
> The Chariot. see [Key 7](7). The vehicle of personality through which the divine life functions. See [150](150), [373](373)

> Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.553] gives: currus, vehiculum thronus, sella curulus. He says one source attributes the higher vehicle to Gedulah, Geburah and Tiphareth, and the lower one Netzach, Hod and Yesod. Another correlates the higher chariot to the 4 cherubim: Chokmah of Aquarius (the man); Binah to the eagle; Gedulah to Leo, and Geburah to Taurus. Whereas the lower vehicle comprises Netzach (Leo), Hod (Taurus) and Yesod (Eagle) and Tiphareth as the man. Still others called Malkuth the Chariot.

---

### [Awsur](/keys/ASVR) - אסור
> Prisoner. Suggests that illusion of separateness in each chariot of God. also; forbidden, prohibited; אסור (Ehsur) bond, chain; אסור (issur) forbidden thing; prohibition.

---

### [goren alutad](/keys/GRN.ATD) - גרן אטד
> threshing-floor of Atad, [Genesis 50:10](http://biblehub.com/genesis/50-10.htm) *"And they came to the threshing floor of Atad, which is beyond Jordan ([264](264)), and there they mourned with a great and very sore lamentation; and he (Joseph) made a mourning for his father seven days."*

> אטד is a symbol of union and is related to Briah, the creative world of Water, where archetypal ideas are combines with each other. It has the same value as words for: gold, beloved; a sacrifice; to show the way; a gift; strength. see [14](14), [264](264).

---

### [Urakiel](/keys/VRKIAL) - ורכיאל
> Geomantic intelligence of Leo; Archangel of Leo, according to Godwin. Davidson says the name is Verchiel or Zerachiel and says he is *"angel of the month of July and ruler of the sign of Leo in the Zodiac... Verchiel is also one of the rulers of the Order of Powers. Budge, Amulet and Talismans, equates Verchiel with Nakiel. According to Papus.. Verchiel here called Zerachiel) is governor of the sun."* [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.305]

---

### [nayzir](/keys/NZIR) - נזיר
> cont. given as nasirafus by Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.569], who cites the Zohar.

---

### See Also:

- [15](15)
- [6](6)
- [Bible Wheel: 267](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=267)
