## 272 - Two Hundred Seventy-Two
> (16x17)

---

### [kerubim](/keys/KRBIM) - כרבים
> The Mighty Ones (the Cherubim). The order of angels associated with Yesod. These are the beings associated with the formative, reproductive powers of Yesod.[variant spelling] see [80](80), [351](351), [278](278), [1227](1227).

- [Exodus 25:18](https://biblehub.com/exodus/25-18.htm): *"And thou shalt make two **cherubims** of gold, of beaten work shalt thou make them, in the two ends of the mercy seat."*
- [1 Kings 7:36](https://biblehub.com/1_kings/7-36.htm): *"For on the plates of the ledges thereof, and on the borders thereof, he graved **cherubims**, lions, and palm trees, according to the proportion of every one, and additions round about."*

---

### [eber](/keys/OBR) - עבר
> region beyond; region across, side;

> Also: [eebehr, ober](/keys/OBR), עבר, to cause to be pregnant, to be with child; to transgress repeatedly. This correlation connects the Kerabim with the reproductive aspects of Yesod. also: OBR (aybahr) to become pregnant; to be intercalated, to be disfigured, be spoilt;

> Also: עבר ([awbahr](/keys/OBR)) to pass, pass over; alienate. see [278](278).

> - [Proverbs 7:8](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/7-8.htm): *"**Passing** through the street near her corner; and he went the way to her house."*
> - [Deuteronomy 9:1](http://biblehub.com/deutronomy/9-1.htm): *"Hear O Israel, thou art to pass over Jordan (#[264](264)) this day, to go in to possess nations greater and mightier than thyself, cities great and fenced up to heaven."*

Eber, Son of [Salah](/keys/ShLCh). "The Region Beyond." see [272](272). [Genesis 10:24](https://biblehub.com/genesis/10-24.htm): *"And Arphaxad begat Salah; and Salah begat **Eber**."*

---

### [ereb](/keys/ORB) - ערב
> Evening or the close of the Day. Sometimes the direction west. With different vowel points: Raven. Also the progenitor of the Hebrews, mentioned in [Genesis 10:24](http://biblehub.com//.htm) *"Arphaxab was the father of Shelah, and Shelah the father of Eber."* see [998](998).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *ערב. west-eve... this name famous in all the ancient mythologies, is the Erebus which we have drawn from the Greek ?ε ε ?, and whose origin has so greatly troubled the savants. Its signification is not doubtful. It always recalls to the mind something obscure, distant our of sight. The Hellenists who have rendered it in this passage by εσπε α and the Latins by 'vespere', evening, making visibly weakened the meaning. It signifies the Occident, and all ideas which are related to it, not only in Hebrew, but in Chaldaic, Syriac, Ethopic and in Arabic. The name of the last-mentioned people is derived there from..."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp.35-36]

> Elsewhere he cites [Genesis 8:7](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"And he [Noah] sent-forth a Raven which went to and fro, but did not return until the waters were dried up from the face of the earth." He renders this verse: "And he sent forth ereb (western darkness) which went to and fro (with periodic movement) until the drying up of the waters upon the earth." And comments: HORB. Ereb... I am well aware that the Hellenist and after them, the author of the Latin vulgate, have seen in ereb, that famed ereb of ancient cosmogonies, only a simple raven: transforming thus a vast and mysterious idea int an idea petty, and ridiculous: but I am also aware that there same Hellenist who worked upon the version which bears the name of the Septuagint, Essences and consequently initiates in the Orallaw, penetrated the hieroglyphic meaning of the sepher deeply enough not to be the dupes of such a metamorphosis. One cannot read them with any kind of attention without discovering their perplexity. Not knowing how to disguise the periodic returns of the alleged bird, and fearing that the truth might shine forth in spite of them, the decided to change completely the original text and be delivered of the ereb which perturbed them, by saying that the raven being sent forth returned no more, [Greek word]. But in this instance, everything betrays their pious fraud. The Samaritan text agrees with the Hebraic text and makes it unassailable; the Samaritan version and the Chaldiac Targum say alike that ereb, given liberty, takes an alternating movement of going forth and coming back; finally Saint Jerome, forced to recognize this truth, can only weaken the force of the phrase by saying, without doubting the first verb and changing their temporal modification of it, 'qui egrediebatur et reurtebatur. It must be remembered that to reveal the depth of this hieroglyphic expression, the ereb was not set at liberty, and did not take this periodic movement until after the release of the nocturnal light referred to in the preceding verse."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp. 229-230]

> Gaskel suggest, as the Hellenists, that the Raven of Noah returns not again, but is "A symbol of the lower mind, which goes forth to the things of the world." [Dictionary of all Scriptures and Myths, p.613]

> A. Jukes writes: "The dove and the raven are sent forth, figuring (for they are birds of heaven, and the heaven is the understanding) certain powers or emotion of the understanding, both pure and impure. In the action of these is shown the working of the good and evil which to the last remains with us. The raven, finding its food in carrion, figures these inclinations with feed on dead things." [Types of Genesis, p.120]

---

### [rawayb](/keys/ROB) - רעב
famine; to be hungry, to be famished. Metathesis of ORB and OBR. note that Resh comes before Ayin.

- [2 Samuel 24:13](https://biblehub.com/2_samuel/24-13.htm): *"So Gad came to David, and told him, and said unto him, Shall seven years of **famine** come unto thee in thy land? or wilt thou flee three months before thine enemies, while they pursue thee? or that there be three days' pestilence in thy land? now advise, and see what answer I shall return to him that sent me"*
- [1 Kings 8:37](https://biblehub.com/1_kings/8-37.htm): *"If there be in the land **famine**, if there be pestilence, blasting, mildew, locust, or if there be caterpiller; if their enemy besiege them in the land of their cities; whatsoever plague, whatsoever sickness there be"*
- [2 Chronicles 6:28](https://biblehub.com/2_chronicles/6-28.htm): *"If there be **dearth** in the land, if there be pestilence, if there be blasting, or mildew, locusts, or caterpillers; if their enemies besiege them in the cities of their land; whatsoever sore or whatsoever sickness there be"*

---

### [bo'ar](/keys/BOR) - בער
> consume, kindle. The power of Beth (Key 1) through the agency of Ayin (Key 15) resulting in Resh (Key 19). Mathers: injure; brutish. [Exodus 3:2](https://biblehub.com/exodus/3-2.htm): *"And the angel of the LORD appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush: and he looked, and, behold, the bush **burned** with fire, and the bush was not consumed"*


---

### [rawbah](/keys/RBO) - רבע
> to be square, to be stretched out, lie down; to lie with, mate (of animals), to have connection with a beast; to commit sodomy; to fructify the ground.

---

### [ribeyah](/keys/RBO) - רבע
> to do something for the fourth time; to make a quadrilateral; to water the soil; רבע (rubah) to be square, have four sides; רבע (rebah) lying down; a forth part; one side of a four-sided figure; rain, fructifying showers;

---

### [robah](/keys/RBO) - רבע
> one fourth; fourth of a kab; רבע (raydeh) descendant of the 4th generation.

---

### [Rinoo](/keys/RINVV) - רינוו
> Day demon. of 3rd decanate of Sagittarius. This decanate is ruled by the Sun and suggest imbalance, resulting in informality, unfaithfulness and secretiveness.

---

### [suru](/keys/SVRV) - סורו
depart; turn aside.

- [Psalm 6:8](https://biblehub.com/psalms/6-8.htm): *"**Depart** from me, all ye workers of iniquity; for the LORD hath heard the voice of my weeping"*
- [Psalm 119:115](https://biblehub.com/psalms/119-115.htm): *"**Depart** from me, ye evildoers: for I will keep the commandments of my God"*
- [Isaiah 30:11](https://biblehub.com/isaiah/30-11.htm): *"**Get you out** of the way, turn aside out of the path, cause the Holy One of Israel to cease from before us."*
- [Isaiah 52:11](https://biblehub.com/isaiah/52-11.htm): *"**Depart ye**, **depart ye**, go ye out from thence, touch no unclean thing; go ye out of the midst of her; be ye clean, that bear the vessels of the LORD"*
- [Lamentations 4:15](https://biblehub.com/lamentations/4-15.htm): *"They cried unto them, **Depart ye**; it is unclean; depart, depart, touch not: when they fled away and wandered, they said among the heathen, They shall no more sojourn there"*

---

### [wesaru](/keys/VSRV) - וסרו
and shall depart. [Exodus 8:11](https://biblehub.com/exodus/8-11.htm): *"**And** the frogs **shall depart** from thee, and from thy houses, and from thy servants, and from thy people; they shall remain in the river only"*

---

### [nezireha](/keys/NZRIH) - נזריה
the consecrated one. see [eth-nezireha](/keys/ATh-NZRIH). [Leviticus 25:11](https://biblehub.com/leviticus/25-11.htm): *"A jubile shall that fiftieth year be unto you: ye shall not sow, neither reap that which groweth of itself in it, nor gather the grapes in it of **thy vine undressed**"*

---

### [hanazir](/keys/HNZIR) - הנזיר
of the Nazirite. [numbers 6:13](https://biblehub.com/numbers/6-13.htm): *"And this is the law of the Nazarite, when the days of his separation are fulfilled: he shall be brought unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation"*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [harmonia](/greek?word=armonia) (Gr) - αρμονια
> harmony.

---

### See Also:

- [11](11)
- [2](2)
- [Bible Wheel: 272](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=272)
