## 278 - Two Hundred Seventy-Eight
> (2x139)

---

### [Kerubim](/keys/KRVBIM) - כרובים
> Cherubs, Angelic Choir associated with Yesod. Variant spelling see [272](272).

---

### [Olam ha-Moteboh](/keys/OVLM.HMVTBO) - עולם המוטבע
> Natural World. The material world. The physical plane.

---

### [Ezra](/keys/OZRA) - עזרא
> The biblical prophet. see [76](76).

---

### [Beor](/keys/BOVR) - בעור
> Beor; the father of Bela, the first king of Edom. [Genesis 36:32](http://biblehub.com/genesis/36-32.htm): *"Bela, son of Beor became king of Edom. His city was named Dinhabah."*

> According to Inman: *"possibly a variant of Peor. Gesenius translates it 'torch', and furst, 'a shepherd'. A torch, a piece of pine wood, or other straight thing, burning at the end, was an euphemism. Hogarth, in his curious engraving 'before' and 'after' has symbolized the same idea by a skyrocket. It is, of course, well known to all, that Cupid (or desire) bears a torch as an emblem with the flame burning upwards; at death, or at funeral ceremonies, the torch hands down, extinguished, or effete."* [Ancient Faiths Embodied in Ancient Names, p.346]

---

### [awbar](/keys/OVBR) - עובר
> Variant spelling of עבר to pass over. Given by Mathers. see [272](272).

---

### [arbaah](/keys/ARBOH) - ארבעה
> four; variant spelling. see [273](273). [Job 42:16](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"After this Job lived 142 years, and saw his son's and his son's sons, four sons of generations."*

---

### [avov](/keys/ORVB) - ערוב
> wild beast, the fourth of the 10 plagues of Egypt. Written OVB in [Exodus 8:21](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"If you do not let my people go, I will send swarms of flies (i.e. OVB) on you and your officials, on your people and into your houses. The houses of the Egyptians will be full of flies, and even the ground were they are."*

---

### See Also:

- [17](17)
- [8](8)
