## 280 - Two Hundred Eighty
> (5x7x8) *"The Area of the seven sides of the [Rosicrucian] vault is 7x40, or 280. This is also a Venusian number, since it is ten times the perfect number 28, or ten times the theosophic extension of the Venusian number 7."* [True and Invisible (Weiser) p. 118]

---

### [Sandalphon](/keys/SNDLPVN) - סנדלפון
> The Archangel of Malkuth, symbolizing the passive, receptive, feminine aspect of God, the basis of the manifest. 280 reduces to [10](10), Kingdom. *"Then name of the angle Sandalphon, the angel or of the wood of the world of Assiah, since the greatest part of it are sterile trees."* [Book of Concealed Mystery V:28] see [101](101).

---

### [par](/keys/PR) - פר
> Godwin gives: bull; victim; offering.

---

### [Tora](/keys/TORA) - טערא
> the law. The Kingdom is seen to be the result of the Life-power's perfect memory of the orderly sequence of its self-expression.

---

### [Rota](/keys/ROTA) - רעטא
> the wheel which indicates that the basic law of the manifest, Malkuth, is the law of rotation. see [48](48).

---

### [Ro-i](/keys/ROI) - רעי
> my shepherd. [Psalm 23](http://biblehub.com/kjv/psalms/23.htm).

---

### [haarah](/keys/HORH) - הערה
> to make naked, uncover, to pour out, to have sexual contact; to mix liquids.

---

### [aayir](/keys/OIR) - עיר
> city, town; terror, excitement; enemy, foe; watcher, angel.

> [Jeremiah 4:29](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/4-29.htm) *"The whole city shall flee for the noise of the horsemen and bowmen; they shall go into thickets, and climb up upon the rocks: every city shall be forsaken,and not a man dwell therein."*

> Also: anger, wrath [Hosea 11:9](http://biblehub.com/hosea/11-9.htm) *"I will not execute the fierceness of mine anger, I will not return to destroy Ephraim: for I am God, and not man; the holy one in the midst of thee: and I will not enter into the city."*

> [Daniel 4:13](http://biblehub.com/daniel/4-13.htm) *"I saw in the visions of my head upon my bed, and, behold, a watcher and a holy one came down from heaven."*

> Mathers gives: citizenship.

---

### [rawkahs](/keys/RKS) - רכס
> to bind, to chain, fasten; to button up.

> [Exodus 28:28](http://biblehub.com/exodus/28-28.htm): *"And they shall bind the breastplate by the rings thereof unto the rings of the ephod with a lance of blue, that it may be above the curious girdle of the ephod, and that the breastplate be not loosed from the ephod."*

> Also: RKS, to stamp, trample over wetted grain; RKS mountain ridge; rough ground [Isaiah 40:4](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/40-4.htm): *"Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be make low: and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough places plain."*

> RKS (robes). bond, league, conspiracy, deceit [Psalm 31:20](http://biblehub.com/psalms/31-20.htm): *"Thou shalt hide them in the secret of their presence from the pride [i.e. deceit] of man; thou shalt keep them secretly in a pavilion from the strife of tongues."*

---

### [raph](/keys/RP) - רף
> terror.

---

### [Kaph + Mem + Nun + Peh + Tzaddi (sofit)](/keys/KMNPTz) - כמנפץ
> Sum of the five letters having a final form. These five letters denote the severest of judgements. *"Five kings (which are the roots of the judgements) betake themselves into swift flight before four (the 4 letters of the Tetragrammaton, which bear with them the influx of benignity). They cannot remain (since the judgements and rigors cease and flee)."* [Book of Concealed Mystery V:28]

---

### [yaear](/keys/IOR) - יער
> Mathers gives in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.32] Angle of the wood of the world of Assiah. In [Canticles 5:1](http://biblehub.com/songs/5-1.htm) *"I am come into my garden, my sister, my spouse: I have gathered my Myrrh with my spice; I have eaten my honeycomb with my honey; I have drunk my wine with my milk."*

---

### [Dagdagiron](/keys/DGDGIRVN) - דגדגירון
> Godwin gives: "The snakey ones," the Qlippoth of Capricorn.

> Kenneth grant says the meaning is "'the fishy', which denotes the feminine nature." [Nights of Eden, p.230] The derivation is from DG dag, fish; to multiply abundantly. see [7](7). Note that Capricorn is symbolized by a goat with the tail of a fish.

---

### See Also:

- [28](28)
- [10](10)
- [1](1)
