## 283 - Two Hundred Eighty-Three
> (prime)

---

### [aeron IHVH](/keys/ARVN.IHVH) - ארון יהוה
> "The ark of the Lord." [Joshua 3:13](http://biblehub.com/joshua/3-13.htm): *"And it shall come to pass, as soon as the soles of the feet of the priest that bear the ark of the Lord, the Lord of all the earth, shall rest in the waters of Jordan, that the waters of Jordan shall be cut off form the waters that come down from above, and they shall stand upon an heap."*

> The ark of the Lord is the body containing the 'shut-in gold'; i.e. the desire to bring forth seed in the heart, unfolding the higher self. Jordan refers to the descent of consciousness from above to below; the new cycle of evolution begins with the sense of separation. The Quest for self-consciousness, or consciousness of the self. see [264](264). this involved alchemical changes in the bloodstream. see [407](407), [690](690), [2610](2610) (Greek).

---

### [zikawron](/keys/ZKRVN) - זכרון
> Memory, power of remembrance memorial, remembrance, record, memento. The power of memory is attributed to ChSD. see [72](72), [964](964). The influx of memory form Chesed descends to Netzach through the path of Kaph. see Key 10, #[20](20), [100](100), [964](964).

---

### [ragalim](/keys/RGLIM) - רגלים
> That goes on foot. Recall that the feet are attributed to Pisces, which is connected with the letter Qoph. The path of Qoph descends from Netzach, the desire nature, to Malkuth, the physical body. Qoph is attributed to the function of sleep and is the Corporeal Intelligence. "The kingdom of spirit is embodied in my flesh" though desire. see [100](100).

---

### [haderei-beten](/keys/ChDRI-BTN) - חדרי־בטן
> Chambers of the bell; depths of the heart, i.e. the inner parts of the body. [Proverbs 20:27](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/20-27.htm): *"The spirit of man is the candle (lamp) of the Lord, searching all the inward parts of the belly."* see [933](933).

---

### See Also:

- [13](13)
- [4](4)
