## 286 - Two Hundred Eighty-Six
> (2x11x13)

---

### [peru](/keys/PRV) - פרו
Be fruitful. [Genesis 1:28](https://biblehub.com/genesis/1-28.htm): *"And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth."*

---

### [kol + ayinekaw](/keys/QVL.OINK) - קול עינך
> "his voice" (i.e. Tiphareth) + "thine eye" (i.e. the divine beneficence). The heart or inmost center is connected with interior vision, which prospers all human undertakings. see [136](136), [150](150).

---

### [murum](/keys/MRVM) - מרום
>  high, lofty [Mathers].

---

### [Murum](/keys/MVRM) - מרום
> Murmus; Goetic demon by night of the 3rd decanate of Virgo. The metathesis of MRVM, where Vav the false "voices" are put before Resh, the regenerated solar force. This decanate, ruled by Venus, as the qualities: chaste, romantic, selective. The influence of the demon suggest subconscious imbalance (Mem), resulting in negative absorption of thoughts from others (Vav), causing errors to regenerative (Resh) within body-cells, the substance of mental instability (Mem). The decanate is linked with the 10 of Pentacles, which is the operation of Malkuth, sphere of the elements, in Assiah, the world of physical action. Heaviness and dullness of mind, slothfulness and material loss are indicated, unless counter measures are taken. see 846. According to Davidson, he is also called Murmur: "Before he turned into a fallen angel, Murmur was partly of the Order of Thrones and partly of the Order of Angels. This 'fact was proved after infinite research', reports Spence in An Encyclopedia of Occultism, p.119. In hell, Murmur is a great Duke with 30 legions of infernal spirits attending him. He manifest in the form of a warrior astride a gryphon, with a dual crown upon his head. He teaches philosophy and constrains the souls of the dead to appear before him for the answering of questions." [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.199-200)

---

### See Also:

- [16](16)
- [7](7)
- [BibleWheel: 286](https://www.biblewheel.com/GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=286)
