## 297 - Two Hundred Ninety-Seven
> (11x27)

---

### [Elohim Gebur](/keys/ALHIM.GBVR) - אלהים גבור
> Literally, "Creative Powers of Strength", Almighty God, God the Strong, God of Battles, God Almighty. Divine Name associated with the 5 of Wands, representing Geburah in Atziluth. The special seat of the Marsforce and of will power. The name indicates the descent of the power of Binah into Geburah through the path of the letter Cheth. see also [211](211), [86](86), [5](5), [14](14), [41](41), [104](104), [64](64), [92](92), [95](95), [216](216), [850](850).

---

### [otzar, otzawr](/keys/ATzVR) - אצור
> treasure, treasury; storehouse. The Venus center is a storehouse of creative imagination.

---

### [tzavar](/keys/TzVAR) - צואר
> the neck. Refers to the Venus center as a key to the work of transmutation.

---

### [Ophir](/keys/AVPIR) - אופיר
> "fine gold", "red" (alchemical sulphur). a place (or country) from which Solomon (Sun) and Hiram (also associated with the Sun) brought fine gold ([1 Chronicles 1:23](http://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/1-23.htm), [29:4](http://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/29-4.htm) and [2 Chronicles 8:18](http://biblehub.com/2_chronicles/8-18.htm), [9:10](http://biblehub.com/2_chronicles/9-10.htm)). Ophir is another name for Havilah, from whence cometh gold. In Alchemy, Gold is a synonym for the Sun. Thus the archetypal reproductive will-force of Geburah is one with the gold of illumination. There is no essential difference between the force which manifests as will and that which manifests as the self identification or "I" reference associated with the Sun, Tiphareth and the Cardiac Ganglion. The first part of this Divine name Elohim Gebur further identifies the reproductive power of Geburah with the finitizing power of Binah. Geburah is the recipient of the powers of Binah through the path of Cheth. [2 Chronicles 9:10](http://biblehub.com/2_chronicles/9-10.htm) *"And the servants also of Hurah, and the servants of Solomon, which brought Gold from Ophir, brought Algum trees and precious stones."*

> D.D Bryant says: "It (Ophir) is supposed to be in Arabia." They Himyaritic "Ophir" means "red" and is the key to the whole mystery. The alchemical sun arose in Arabia, and it was from that country, that Solomon that sage obtained his sulphur for the Great Work of manufacturing gold, which Hiram-Abif (Mercury) carried on for him. See [Jeremiah 10:9](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/10-9.htm), [300](300), [94](94), [294](294), [350](350), [287](287), [130](130), [287](287), [291](291).

---

### [armon, araymon](/keys/ARMVN) - ארמון
> fortress, castle, citadel. Also the inner citadel of a King's House. [Isaiah 32:14](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/32-4.htm): *"Because the palaces shall be forsaken; the multitude of the city shall be left; the forts and towers shall be dens forever, a joy of wild asses, a pasture of flocks."*

---

### [korsia](/keys/KVRSIA) - כורסיא
> throne. Aramaic name used in Qabalistic works as one of the appellations of Binah. Geburah receives the power or influence of Binah via the path of Cheth. *"כורסיא is an immediate emanation from the world of Atziluth, whose ten Sephiroth are reflected herein, and are consequently more limited, though they are still of the purest nature, and without any admixture of matter."* [Mathers: Introduction to Kabalah Unveiled, #58]. In [Sepher Sephiroth, p.34] Mathers gives: a name of Briah.

---

### [Nuriel](/keys/NVRIAL) - נוריאל
> "Fire" Angel of hailstorms in Jewish legend. According to the Zohar, Nuriel governs Virgo. He is 300 parasangs tall and has a retinue of 50 myriads of angels 'all fashioned out of water and fire'. The height of Nuriel is exceeded only by the Erelim; by the watchers; by Af and Hemiah; and of course by Metatron, who is the tallest hierarch in heaven-excepting perhaps Hadraniel and Anafiel. In Gnostic lore, Nuriel is one of the 7 subordinates to Jehuel, prince of fire... As a charm for warding off evil, Nuriel is also effective. His name is found engraved on oriental amulets, as noted by Schrire, Hebrew Amulets. [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.209]

---

### See Also:

- [18](18)
- [9](9)