## 302 - Three Hundred Two (3x151)

---

### [arqa](/keys/ARQA) - ארקא
> Fertile soil (Aramaic); Earth. One of the 7 Earths corresponding to Hod. see [291](291), [50](50), [14](14), [365](365), [105](105), [432](432), [337](337).

---

### [cohen layel Elion](/keys/KHN.LAL.OLIVN) - כהן לאל עליון
> priest of the most high God ([Genesis 14:18](http://biblehub.com/genesis/14-18.htm)). Refers to Melchi-zedek. see [320](320), [126](126).

---

### [qebar](/keys/QBR) - קבר
> has protected.

---

### [qeber](/keys/QBR) - קבר
> grave, sepulcher; womb, uterus containing an embryo. Also qahbar: to bury.

---

### [qereb](/keys/QRB) - קרב
> inward part, bowels intestines; midst, interior.

---

### [qahrab](/keys/QRB) - קרב
> to come near, approach; to be offered as a sacrifice; to come before a court. קרב  qayrub to befriend; to be near, to bring near, approaching.

---

### [qerahb](/keys/QRB) - קרב
> battle, war. All these meaning of קרב refer to the physical plane and the microcosm.

---

### [beqer](/keys/BQR) - בקר
> morning, early day. Suggesting the mystic east, direction attributed to Daleth on the Cube of Space. Also: to inquire, seek, examine, test; to distinguish; differentiate; to visit, attend; or to criticize, review, censure.

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"בקר, east-dawn... This word, produced form the root QR, governed by the sign Beth, indicates a thing whose course is regulated, and which presents itself ever the same; a thing which is renewed unceasingly. The Arabic... word is found sometimes used to express light. The Syriac [word] contains often the idea of inspection, of exploration. The Hellenist in restricting its signification to the word π , morning, have followed purposely the literal and vulgar sense. The Samaritan version was less restricted; it translates ערב and בקר... that is to say, that which lowers, falls, and that which rises, begins, signals. The Chaldaic Targum says that same thing: דמש and צפר. The English word over and back, hold to the same roots as the Hebrew words; and vividly express the figurative sense."* ([The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.36](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/36/mode/2up))

> Gaskel suggest that east and the sunrise is *"an emblem of the direction in which the self appears in the soul. The source of life, and the light of knowledge is the self (sun) rising in the mind... from the east, or along the celestial path of the self, to which the rising of the sun in the heavens is comparable, was the divine ego or spark sent forth of the spirit in the Buddhic vestores which clothed it with the full powers of the soul." He also says that dawn daybreak and dayspring, is "a symbol of the commencement of manifestation-the period of the self forthgoing. To establish the planes of nature. This is typified in the approach of the sunrise when the sun (the Self) appears."* [Dictionary of All Scriptures and Myths, pp.201, 239]

---

### [baqar](/keys/BQR) - בקר
> cattle, herd, oxen. Also cattle driver. Note that Aleph is the "Ox". see [1052](1052), [1265](1265).

---

### [rahqab](/keys/RQB) - בקר
> to rot, decay, to putrefy. Also rahqeb: rotten. [rahqahb](/keys/RQB). rottenness, putrefaction, decay, decayed flesh or corpse mingled with soil. Observe the last four words are metathesis of 3 letters: Qoph attributed to Pisces and alchemical multiplication (#[259](259)); Resh, attributed to the Sun and Beth, the letter of Mercury. The following word is also a combination of these letters:

---

### [barak](/keys/BRQ) - ברק
> lighting, brilliancy. A person cited in [Judges 5:12](http://biblehub.com/judges/5-12.htm) *"Awake, awake Deborah: Awake, awake, utter a song; arise Barak and lead thy captivity captive, thou son of Abinoam"* ("Father or possessor of grace") see [443](443) (note), [179](179), [217](217), [58](58).

---

### [Sarayel, Saraiel, Sariel](/keys/SRAIAL) - סראיאל
> Angel of Gemini. Assisted by another "Genus" (Angel) called Sagras, the ruler of Taurus (ruled by Venus, seat of intuition-connect with alchemical congelation, #[331](331)) [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p. 258]

---

### [vehartz](/keys/VHARTz) - והארץ
> and the earth. [Genesis 1:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-2.htm): *"... was without form and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep."* [Genesis 2:1](https://biblehub.com/genesis/2-1.htm): *"Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them."*

---

### [mozeni tzedeq](/keys/MAZNI.TzDQ) - מאזני צדק
> Just balances. [Leviticus 19:36](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/19-36.htm): *"... Just weighs, a just Ephah, and a just Hin, shall ye have: I am the Lord your God, which brought you out of the Land of Egypt."* see [194](194), [148](148).

---

### [imri-na](/keys/AMRI-NA) - אמרי־נא
say please. [Genesis 12:13](https://biblehub.com/genesis/12-13.htm): *"**Say, I pray thee**, thou art my sister: that it may be well with me for thy sake; and my soul shall live because of thee"*

---

### [min-yequmun](/keys/MN-IQVMVN) - מן־יקומון
that they rise not again. [212](212). [Deuteronomy 33:11](https://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/33-11.htm): *"Bless, LORD, his substance, and accept the work of his hands: smite through the loins of them that rise against him, and of them that hate him, **that they rise not again**"*

---

### See Also:

- [32](32)
- [5](5)
- [Bible Wheel: 302](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=302)
