## 315 - Three Hundred Fifteen
> (5x7x9)

---

### [gabish](/keys/GBISh) - גביש
> ice. In Job 28:18: crystal. [The English crystal, from the Greek στα , meaning clear ice, ice, crystal, rockcrystal, preserves the ancient belief that crystal was a sort of ice.] In the magical language this ideas suggests that man is a reflecting medium, like a crystal. Also means: "hail" (Case); petrified, frozen. see Gomorrah below. 

---

### [ha-olahm ha-qatan](/keys/HOVLM.HQTN) - העולם הקטן
> "the little world", that is, microcosm. An epithet of man. see I. Myer Qabbalah, p.147]

---

### [yetzirah](/keys/ITzIRH) - יצירה
> formation, formative power. The world of formation. In man, Yetzirah is the formative power operative in all 6 Sephiroth of the Lesser Countenance. The 7 of Swords refers particularly to the formative power of desire and to the influence of desire upon the Yetziratic plane of patterns and processes. The formative power, is the special power man, reflecting the creative power (Briah) of the Vast Countenance. Darkness and evil provide the raw material from which then God FORMS into light [Isaiah 45:1]. In man the formative power is imagination or phantasy. The characteristic power at work in the world or plane above that of Assiah, or action. Corresponding to Vav in IHVH, and the element Air.

---

### [adam roa](/keys/ADM.RO) - אדם רע
> evil man. It refers to the consequences of human actions when the formative power of desire is exercised under the nightmare dream of separation. see [270](270), [469](469). Paul Case: "The prayer for deliverance may be understood as a prayer that the Psalmist himself may not enter into the consciousness, of evil and violence. Perhaps an even deeper meaning may be found. Since ADM RO = 315 = HOVLM HQThN, a Qabalistic term for the microcosm. It is also the number of IOIRH, formation, and the personal Adam is the center of the world of formation, posted in Tiphareth. To be delivered from the evil man may well be to be freed from the apparent limitations of those whose consciousness does not extend beyond formation, or beyond the personalized ego. These are men of violence, such as Troward speaks of*, and their essential character is that described in [Genesis 6:11] where we read 'The earth was filled with violence: AISh HMSIM, the violent man [469](469) = HIKL QDSh holy temple, because in spite of his error, he is as truly the temple of God as is any other man. And this is always understood by those who know, so that they never make the mistake of setting, themselves in antagonism to the violent man. They pray to be delivered from his error, and they work, for his liberation from that error.' Father forgive them for they know not what they do' is the attitude taken by the truly awakened man against all who conspire against him, and all who seem to be his enemies, or the enemies of principles he holds dear." [Troward on Psalms, Psalm 140, pp. 191-192]

> *"The violent man (verse 11) follows only force in all his methods-not the law of growth by the planting of the seed. Consequently he sees only from the stand point of his isolated personality and produces a corresponding activity in the universal divine, which therefore creates powers of a similar sort as ?ruling? this man's life, i.e. destructive powers, and so evil hunts him to his overthrow, unless he reverse his attitude towards the divine. He makes a God of the limited, and therefore antagonistic, instead of the infinite and unified. The apparent curse in this Psalm are only a statement of the inevitable consequences of fighting against the infinite." [Troward on Psalms, Psalm 140, pp. 191-192]

---

### [mareh ha-nogah](/keys/MRAH.HNVGH) - מראה הנוגה
> Vision of splendor, mirror of splendor. Marah [MRAH] also means mirror and Nogah [NVGH], is a title of Netzach. The astrological symbol of Venus is said to be a mirror which was one of the Goddess attributes. The idea of reflection links this to GBISh (crystal) and ITzRH (formation). The microcosmic man is the mirror of the macrocosm, and so far as the personal man is concerned, whatever is reflected from the macrocosm into his microcosmic consciousness is more or less colored by his desires and passions.

> Given as as visio splendoris by Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.553]. He says it is Binah from the part of Chesed, for splendor always sees to the right side.

---

### [Gomorrah or Am-o-raw](/keys/OMRH) - עמרה
> Submersion. Name of city in the vale of Siddom, referred to in the Bible and known for its wickedness, especially in the perversions of desire. Has a special correspondence with ADM RO (Adam Roa).

> Gomorrah means "Submersion or woodland" and is probably from the root OMR omar, to sprout. Compare NVN, Nun, to sprout. Gomorrah represents Water and Sodom represents fire in alchemy. [Paul Case of D.D. Bryant, IV] see [310](310), [106](106), [104](104), [354](354), [1000](1000), [1813](1813) (Greek). ORMH ormah. subtlety, shrewdness, prudence, cunning, craft. From the same root as that which describes the serpent as more subtle [ORVM, Genesis 3:1] than any other creature. This word is employed in both a good and bad sense. On the good side it signifies the prudence which comes from skill in managing the emotions. (also symbolized by the skill needed to construct the heptagon). On the bad side it consists of the same sort of skill but applied by someone to manage others through their desires and to their disadvantage. see [683](683), [36](36), [46](46), [252](252), [154](154), [224](224), [314](314), [29](29).

---

### [voshet](/keys/VShT) - רב הבונים
> gullet, esophagus, narrow canal.

---

### [Rab ha-Bonim](/keys/RB.HBVNIM) - רב הבונים
> Master of the Builders. A term used in the 3rd degree of Freemasonry, the "Master Mason". This is accomplished by the subtlety which brings the "evil man" into the "vision of splendor". see 108.

---

### [maorah](/keys/MORH) - מערה
> Arrangement, order; battle-line, rank, pile (of wood on altar); disposition of the stars, fate; proportion, act in a drama. Metathesis of ORMH here the reversal of separateness penetrates the veils of ignorance (Ayin + Mem) causing regeneration and order (Heh and Resh).

---

## Greek

---

### [agamos](/greek?word=agamos) - (Gr)
> Unmarried. Directly connected with the Pythagorean notions of the number 7. May be considered also in connection with the Rosicrucian allegory, which is explicit in its declaration that the founders of the order were "vowed virgins," though some of the later members were not celibate. see [314](314) (Greek).

---

### See Also:

- [9](9)
