## 319 - Three Hundred Nineteen
> (11x29)

---

### [Sartain](/keys/SRTN) - סרטן
> the Crab, the sign Cancer. Associated with Cheth, the enclosed field and with Prakriti, the mysterious power of the finitizing principle. As the crab protects and isolates himself by growing a shell, so may the adept protect and isolate himself from the illusions of his environment by learning the technique of magical speech. By this means he may even build for himself an indestructible body, which will resist every hostile external influence. Only one who is wholly unselfish may exercise powers of a Master of the Temple.

---

### [yashat](/keys/IShT) - ישט
> to stretch out, to extend. An intimation that the powers associated with Cheth, Cancer and the Page of Cups are those of expansion or extension. The fundamental idea is that Water is the subtle substance which forms itself into all manner of objects and is the principle of increase and growth. In physics, extension is defined as "that property of a body whereby it occupies a portion of space". The Briatic plane is the extension of the dynamic Life-force in Chokmah. Hints at the tremendous extension of powers which is the outcome of the adept's command, through occult speech, of the substance phase of the Life-power. see [85](85), [331](331), [311](311).

---

### [shochah](/keys/ShVChH) - שוחה
> speech. The faculty attributed to Cancer.

---

### [shait](/keys/ShIT) - שוחה
> An oar. Suggest that by which one drives and steers a boat through water. Has to do with artistic adaptation and control of the Water element associated with the 18th path through the sign Cancer. The adept learns the secret of adapting the astral fluid by specific employment of sound-vibrations related to mental images, as will tend to materialize these images as physical conditions.

---

### [makuam be-emehtza](/keys/MKVN.BAMTzO) - מכון באמצע
> standing in the midst [Book of Formation 4:4]. Refers to the holy temple, or palace, standing in the interior center. This palace is connected with the letter [Tav](/keys/Th) and [Key 21](21). see [969](969), [799](799).

---

### [derek ha-Melek](/keys/DRK.HMLK) - דרך המלך
> "The Kings Highway;" "The Way of the King". The driver of the chariot is [Key 7](7) is a King. Note the stream behind the chariot. This is the Highway. see [224](224), [74](74).

---

## Greek/Latin

---

### [lithos](/greek?word=lithos) (Gr)
> stone. One of the 2 New Testament spellings used throughout the Greek text of the New Testament. see [53](53). It is what is symbolized by the cubical stone chariot in Key 7.

---

### [Rosa hierichuntis spiritualis](/latin?word=Rosa+hierichuntis+spiritualis) (Lt)
> Spiritual rose of Jericho [Secret Symbols, pate 13]. At the place cited, the spiritual rose of Jericho is associated with animal blood. There is a deep esoteric connection between blood and the "House of Influence," and one of the meanings of the river in Key 7 has to do with this. A clue to the meaning of the gematria of this number. see [47](47), [139](139).
