## 32 - Thirty-Two
> 2^5. 2x2x2x2x2.

Thirty-Two paths of wisdom, or 10 sephiroth plus 22 letters.

---

### [The Thirty-Second Path](/keys/Th)
> *"The thirty-second path (Tav, joining Yesod to Malkuth) is called the [Serving, or Administrative, Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.NOBD) because it directs all the operations of the seven planets, and concurs therein."* [The Gematria Notebooks of Paul Foster Case]. see [126](126), [476](476).

> *"Tav - Let us add to these septenaries that the wise man rules the elements, stills tempests, cures the diseased by his touch, and raises the dead!"* [Eliphas Levi - Transcendental Magic]

> *"I am the Administrative Intelligence, uniting the Kingdom of Light to its foundation"* [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom]

---

### [Kabode](/keys/KBVD) - כובד
> weight, mass; Glory, brilliance. The symbol of the eternal presence of the divine glory, revealed by the inner voice. Refers to cosmic radiation materialized into electromagnetism and gravity. The substance of all that is. see [26](26) ([Kabad](/keys/KBD)), 508, 112. *[Gematria PFC]*

> They are the Holy Living Creatures seen by the prophet Ezekiel, and that which cometh into form by their appearance is the Glory of God which is the true substance of all things and also the Holy Influence which descendeth through the paths of the Tree, and ascendeth again to be swallowed up in the abyss of radiant darkness for which [AIN](/keys/AIN) is the first veil... Thirty-two are the paths and 32 is the number of **כובד** [Kabode](/keys/KBVD), the Glory... Thus the paths and the Glory are in truth one. Paths of Chokmah are they called, and from this you may know them to be paths of life, for verily, Chokmah is none other than Kachmah, and Kachmah is the one and only power of life.

> Now the stars are physical condensations of the Glory of God, or the radiance known to us as electricity, magnetism and gravitation. These three are names for one power, and the words Kachmah and Mezla are other names for the same power. Man's body is as truly a condensation on the physical plane of this power as in the physical body of a sun. Indeed, even the chemical elements in man's body, where they take on form as bones and the blood and tissues, are the very same elements that take form as flaming gases in the body of the sun. This is not philosophy, but science. Whether as a human body, or as a solar form, however, the physical substance is only the outer vesture of the Divine Glory, which runs forth from AIN and flows back to AIN, and through AIN, into the unfathomable abyss of the radiant darkness. The real purport of the teaching is that even man's physical body is of one substance with the Divine Glory, not separate or separable from that Glory. *[23rd Communication 12/29/43]*.

see [63](63), [73](73), [61](61), [78](78), [1081](1081) (Greek), [832](832).

Kabode, **כבוד**, is *knowledge* (Vav) inserted into the heaviness of [Kabad](/keys/KBD), binding Beth to Daleth. This "nail" (vav) is the pin of the hinge which allows the Door (Daleth) of a House (Beth) to open and close.

---

### [Laib](/keys/LB) - לב
> center, midst; heart (as the seat of knowledge, understanding and thinking). Note that LB is Libra and Mercury, the equilibration of action. see [12](12), [406](406), [87](87). * "... the number 32 represents something familiar to occultist of may schools. To Freemasons, whose ritual preserve many vestiges of the Qabalah, the heart is the point of initial preparation for admission to the fraternity. That modern masonry has well-nigh forgotten the deeper significance of this point must be admitted, but the truth remains that in the heart every man is first prepared to become a true builder. And the essence of that preparation is inner harmony with what the Qabalist represent by the 32 paths. Or it might be even more accurate to say that not until the heavenly wisdom begins to stir in a man's heart that man ready to seek initiation." [Paul Case: True and Invisible, p118]*

---

### [zivog](/keys/ZIVVG) - זיווג
> copula maritalis, sexual union, marriage coupling. Implies that divine union is likened to purified marital union.

---

### [chaziz](/keys/ChZIZ) - חזיז
> zig-zag, forked lightning. The "lighting flash" of the Tree of Life proceeds from Kether to Malkuth. The kundalini flash proceeds from Malkuth (Saturn) to Kether (Mercury) in stirring the inner planetary centers. Lighting suggest illumination, however brief.

---

### [yawchid](/keys/IChID) - יחיד
> Paul Case: unity [K.D.L.C.K. p. 432]. "an only one", alone, only, only one; lonely, solitary, indivisible; select, distinguished. Singular number (grammar) root of Yekhidah. see [37](37). Occurs 3 times in the Pentateuch and 9 (3x3) times elsewhere in the Old Testament, 12 in all. Suggest that Divine illumination brings one in touch with the solitary Monad ([Key 9](9) - The Hermit).

---

### [eheiehveh](/keys/AHIHVH) - אהיהוה
> Coalescence of אהיה and יהוה, macroprosopus and microprosopus, symbolized by the hexagram. Suppose that the 3 Hehs conceal the 3 mothers, Aleph, Mem, and Shin, and we get [358](358). see [2](2), [26](26).

---

### [Zekkah](/keys/ZKH) - זכה
> to make clear, make pure; to pronounce guiltless, acquit; to obtain a privilege for, assign a possession to; to credit one's account with purification is essential for attainment of the heart's glory.

---

### [Bal](/keys/BL) - בל
> Lord. Aramaic word for heart.

---

### [hu-hayah](/keys/HVA-HIH) - הוא־היה
he was. [Genesis 10:9](https://biblehub.com/genesis/10-9.htm): *"**He was** a mighty hunter before the LORD: wherefore it is said, Even as Nimrod the mighty hunter before the LORD"*

---

### [weyahweh](/keys/VIHVH) - יהוה
and [Yahweh](/keys/IHVH). see [26](26).

- [Genesis 13:14](https://biblehub.com/genesis/13-14.htm): *"**And the LORD** said unto Abram, after that Lot was separated from him, Lift up now thine eyes, and look from the place where thou art northward, and southward, and eastward, and westward"*
- [Genesis 18:17](https://biblehub.com/genesis/18-17.htm): *"**And the LORD** said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do"*
- [Genesis 19:24](https://biblehub.com/genesis/19-24.htm): *"**Then the LORD** rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and fire from the LORD out of heaven"*
- [Genesis 21:1](https://biblehub.com/genesis/21-1.htm): *"**And the LORD** visited Sarah as he had said, and the LORD did unto Sarah as he had spoken"*
- [Genesis 24:35](https://biblehub.com/genesis/24-35.htm): *"**And the LORD** hath blessed my master greatly; and he is become great: and he hath given him flocks, and herds, and silver, and gold, and menservants, and maidservants, and camels, and asses"*

---

### English Gematria:

- [dye](/english?word=dye) *([Fama Intro p.12](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n12))*
- [so](/english?word=so) *([Fama Intro p.12](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n12))*

---

### See Also:

- [320](320)
- [5](5)
