## 327 - Three Hundred Twenty-Seven
> (3x109)

---

### [mazri'a](/keys/MZRIO) - מזריע
Yielding. [Genesis 1:11](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-11.htm): *"And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb **yielding** seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is in itself, upon the earth: and it was so."*

---

### [sebawkah](/keys/ShBKH) - שבכה
> net, snare. [Job 18:8](http://biblehub.com/job/18-8.htm): *"For he has stretched out his feet into the net, and he walks upon a snare."*

> Also lattice-work, in regard to Solomon's pillars, in [1 Kings 7:17](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/7-17.htm): *"And he [Hiram] made carved ornaments of network and wreaths of chain work for the capitals which were upon the top of the pillars seven for one capital and seven for the other."* see [322](322) (masculine form).

> [beginning of text missing] Saturn and suggest conscious imbalance, resulting in lack of method, prudence and calculation for others. The attentiveness is used as a calculating element in one's personal nature. The second decanate of Virgo corresponds to the 9 of Pentacles, Yesod , sphere of the Moon in Assiah, the material world. here it indicates lack of receptivity to Key 9, the Hermit, which illustrates the alchemical operation of Mercury in Virgo, preventing desires and plans from being brought to completion. The psychic power of Yesod, stored in the Saturn center, is not used to consciously recognize and dissolve negative actions.

---

### [Kitzaur](/keys/KITzAVR) - כיצאור
> Night demon of 3rd decanate of Capricorn. This decanate is ruled by Mercury and suggest subconscious imbalance, resulting in negative aspects of qualities: profound, aloof, taciturn. This expresses in suspicious of the motives of others, conniving and ruthless determination for materialistic goals. The second decanate of Capricorn corresponds to the 4 of Pentacles, of Chesed, sphere of Jupiter in Assiah, the material world. This is particularly related to alchemical earth as the source of all manifestation. [Here recall that Capricorn is a cardinal earth sign, ruled by Saturn and with Mars, the "fire of the Lord" exalted]. In this context it denotes absence of grasp of the principles of manifestation in the immediate present, and is related to the symbol of Mercury on the devil's belly in [Key 15](15). The self of man is seen to be dominated by the elements composing his physical environment.

---

### See Also:

- [372](372)
- [12](12)
- [3](3)
