## 33 Thirty-Three
> (3x11). A mystical number in many parts of the world. The magical age of perfection. Represents the union of the 32 Paths with the concealed on of the 3 veils.

### [Gimel/Lamed](/keys/G-L)
> Moon in Libra.

### [gal](/keys/GL)
> ruin, a heap of stones; a spring, a fountain (because the water rolls out). [Song of Solomon 4:12]. Written GLL in Job 20:7 concerning the pride of the Godless man: "He will perish forever, like his own dung; those who have seen him will say, 'where is he.'" and GL [gol] round vessel for oil [Zechariah 4:2] "He asked me, 'what do you see?' I answered, 'I see a solid gold lampstand with a bowl at the top and seven lights on it, with olive trees by it, one on the right of the bowl [GL] and the other on the left.'" Fabre D'Olivet comments: "GL. This root can be conceived according to its two ways of composition: by the first, it is the root GV, symbol of all organic extension, united to the sign of directive movement Lamed; by the second, it is the organic sign Gimel, which is contracted with the root AL, symbol of elevation and expansive force. In the first case it is a thing which is displayed in space by unfolding itself; which is developed, produced, according to its nature, unveiled; in the second, it is a thing, on the contrary, which coils, rolls, complicates, accumulates, heaps up, envelops. Here, one can recognize the double meaning which is always attached to the sign Gimel under the double relation of organic development and envelopment.

### [gal](/keys/GL)
> That which moves with a light and undulating movement; which manifest joy, grace, and ease in its movements. The revolution of celestial spheres. The orbit of the planets. A wheel; a circumstance, an occasion. That which is revealed, that which appears, is uncovered. That which piles up by rolling: the movement of the waves, the swell; the volume of anything whatsoever, a heap, a pile; the circuit or contour of an object or a place: it confines.

> The Arabic [word] presents the same ideas of unfoldment and aggrandizement, as much in the physical as in the moral: it is also the unfolding of the sail of a ship, as well as that of a faculty of the soul. xxx expresses at the same time the majesty of a king, the eminence of a virtue, the extent of anything whatsoever." [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 314]

### [log](/keys/LG)
> basin; a measure for liquids. [Leviticus 14:10] "On the 8th day he must bring two male lambs and one ewe lamb a year old, each without defect, along with three-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering, and one log of oil.

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: "Every idea of liaison, if intimate, complicated thing; of litigation. The meaning of the Arabic [word] is similar and signifies literally to insist, to contest. The Hebrew LG presents in the figurative, symbolic type, the measure of extent, space." [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 378]

### [Bael](/keys/BAL)
> Gothic demon by day of the 1st decanate of Aries.

### [Bel](/keys/BAL)
> In god.

### [Belah](/keys/BLA)
> to destroy, to decay. Bela, a King of Edom. Blo. the nothing.

### [abal](/keys/ABL)
> to wither, to parch, droop, faint, sorrow, mourning, lament.

### [ve-zak](/keys/V-ZK)
"but (as for) the pure." [Proverbs 21:8](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/21-8.htm): *"The way of man is froward and strange: but as for the pure, his work is right."*

### [zaku](/keys/ZKV)
Purity.

### [ha-Tiyt](/keys/H-TIT)
> the clay.

### [ha-Kokh](/keys/H-KCh)
> the power.

### [Abika](/keys/ABIK)
> "thy father".

### See Also:

- [6](6)