## 342 - Three Hundred Forty-Two
> (2x3x57)

---

### [basham](/keys/BShM) - בשם
> dealer or maker of spices, perfumer, druggist; BShM, to be spiced, to be tipsy.

---

### [shalabah](/keys/ShLHBH) - שלהבה
> a blaze, flame. From ShLHB to kindle, inflame. Formation is the operation of divine Fire or the Father (Chokmah) upon the divine Water or the "mother" (Binah); this produces the Air or "son" (Tiphareth), which is a "living soul".

---

### [maraybeq](/keys/MRBQ) - מרבק
> stall, stable. The "place" where the Christ-child is born. It corresponds to the Virgo area in the microcosm. see [78](78), [490](490).

---

### [eretz Edom](/keys/ARTz.ADVM) - ארץ אדום
> "land of Edom". [Isaiah 34:6](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/34-6.htm): *"The sword of the Lord is filled with blood, it is made fat with fatness, and with the blood of lambs and goats, with the fat of the kidneys of Rams: for the Lord hath a sacrifice in Bozrah, and a great slaughter of the land of Idumea (Edom)."* Edom means "red" and is connected with blood as a vehicle of consciousness; lamb and ram are associated with Aries, goat with Capricorn, both influence by Mars; the "sword" is that of Justice, or equilibrium (kidneys = Lamed, connected with the path linking Geburah and Tiphareth); [Bozrah](/keys/BTzRH) (fortress, #[297](297)) was the capital of Edom, which also connotes unbalanced force. see [344](344), [51](51), [45](45).

---

### [paklur](/keys/PVKLVR) - פוכלור
> Night demon of the 2nd decanate of Taurus. This decanate is ruled by Mercury, and suggest subconscious imbalance, resulting in concentration which is deliberative, destructive and reactionary. The 2nd decanate of Taurus is attributed to the 6 of Pentacles, corresponding to Tiphareth, sphere of the Sun, as it expresses in Assiah, the material world. As subconsciousness is freed with correct self-direction, both mental and physical alterations are accomplished. The goal of this stage of development is the level of adeptship associated with Tiphareth wherein one is liberated from the limitations of physical matter and circumstances. There is need to devote much time to attentive, concentrative observations of what is going on in one's environment.

---

### [Korson](/keys/KVRSVN) - כורסון
> Demon king of the west, according to the Goetia. see [992](992).

---

### [IHVH melek olahm va'ed](/keys/IHVH.MLK.OVLM.VOD) - יהוה מלך עולם ועד
> The Lord is king for ever and ever". [Psalm 10:16](http://biblehub.com/psalms/10-16.htm): *"The Lord is king for ever and ever: the heathen have perished from his land."*

> The Zohar [I:34A, p.127] comments: *"There are two worlds, an upper world and a lower world, the lower being on the pattern of the upper. There is a higher king and a lower king. It is written: "The Lord reigns, the Lord has reigned, the Lord will reign for evermore'. i.e. 'The Lord reigns' above, 'the Lord has reigned' in the middle, 'the Lord will reign' below. Rabbi Aha said: "The Lord refers to the supernal wisdom; beauty of Israel; 'The Lord will reign' signifies the ark of the covenant. At another time David reversed the order and said, "The Lord is king forever and ever' ([Psalm 10:16](http://biblehub.com//.htm)) i.e. 'The Lord is king', below 'forever', in the middle, 'and ever'. above for there is the reunion and the perfection of all. God is 'king' above, and 'will reign' below."* see [26](26), [90](90), [146](146), [74](74).

---

### [Shebil](/keys/ShBIL) - שביל
> path, way. [Psalm 77:19](http://biblehub.com/psalms/77-19.htm): *"Your path led through the sea, your way through the mighty waters, though your footprints were not seen."*

---

### [el-haisha](/keys/AL-HAShH) - אל־האשה
to the woman. [Genesis 3:16](https://biblehub.com/genesis/3-16.htm): *"**Unto the woman** he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children; and thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee"*

---

### See Also:

- [9](9)
- [Bible Wheel: 342](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=342)


