## 343 - Three Hundred Forty-Three
> (7x7x7)

### [gawsham](/keys/GShM) - גשם
> to rain violently. As a noun: a hard shower. Root of the Corporeal Intelligence (Qoph), see [739](739), [389](389).

### [ve-yomer Elohim](/keys/VIAMR.ALHIM) - ויאמר אלהים
> And God said [Genesis 1:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-2.htm). Refers to the creative word or powers, which brought forth the universe from the unmanifest. see [414](414), [86](86).

### [tal-Hermon](/keys/TL.ChRMVN) - טל חרמון
> "the dew of Hermon". [Psalm 133:3](http://biblehub.com/psalms/133-3.htm) "(Unity is) as the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descended upon the mountains of Zion: for there the Lord commanded the blessing, even life forever-more." The "dew" is the watery essence which, according to the Zohar, flows from the brain of Macroprosopus (Kether) to the lower sephiroth. see [39](39), [304](304).

### [laib-aish](/keys/LB-AISh) - לב איש
> hearts of men. This "dew" flows into Microprosopus (Tiphareth), which is the Ego seated in the hearts of men. see [32](32), [311](311).

### [shelechah](/keys/ShLChH) - שלחה
> "let loose". [Genesis 49:21](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-21.htm) *"Naphtali is a hind let loose: he giveth goodly words."*

### [ziphron](/keys/ZPRVN) - זפרון
> a sweet smell; to be fragrant; a city in north Palestine. The "words "brought forth by Naphtali (Virgo) give the odor of sanctity.

### [ervon Elohim](/keys/ARVN.ALHIM) - ארון אלהים
> The ark of the Elohim (God). [1 Samuel 3:3](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/3-3.htm) "And ere the lamp of God went out in the temple of the Lord, where the ark of God was..." see [257](257), [86](86).

### [bahisiron](/keys/BHISIRVN) - בהיסירון
> Qlippoth of Aquarius. Implies wrongly directed meditation.

### [I.A.O. + Yeheshua](/keys/IHShVH.IAV) - יהשוה יאו
> I.A.O. = [17](17) = the swastika; Yeheshua = the pentagram. They total = 343, as [73](73) is the formation of the stone of the wise, from the seven-fold regimen and the fixation of the volatile (the wanderers of planets). Part of training of lesser adept 5 = 6. see [98](98), [48](48), [17](17), [326](326).