## 348 - Three Hundred Forty-Eight
> (3x4x29)

---

### [mashach](/keys/MShCh) - משח
> oil (for anointing); to anoint; consecrate, to smear, measure. Root of Messiah. see [358](358), [868](868).

---

### [ruach-mem-dam](/keys/RVCh-MIM-DM) - רוח־מים־דם
> spirit, water, blood. Symbolic of the 3 principles: spirit, soul, body. "Here in the Bible we find the correspondences to be: spirit, or father, water or word, blood or Holy Ghost. This blood is declared to be the life, and the life is shown in the color, which as is well known is derived from the sun. However, if you take the sun of our art apart from the water or word (which is mercury), you will see no color whatever. The color of blood appearing in the work is the result of the sun's ray piercing the side of Jesus. And if you catch this blood in a dish as Joseph of Arimathea did, it becomes the Holy Grail, working every sort of miracle in healing for the Knights of the Golden Fleece." [D.D. Bryant; the Art of Alchemy, IX, 6]. see [214](214), [44](44), [90](90).

---

### [shamach](/keys/ShMCh) - שמח
> to shine, to be bright, to rejoice; to glitter, sparkle ([Leviticus 23:40](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/23-40.htm), [Deuteronomy 12:7](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/12-7.htm)). Also joyful, glad, merry ([Psalm 45:15](http://biblehub.com/psalms/45-15.htm)).

---

### [khomesh](/keys/ChMSh) - חמש
> one-fifth, fifth part of something; belly; one of the books of the Pentateuch; to be strong, to equip, to arm for war; lion, abdomen. Relates to Geburah, the 5th Sephirah. The lions are the seat of strength; to gird the lions, or to arm generally.

---

### [chawmesh](/keys/ChMSh) - חמש
> Five; number of the pentagram. Note that the reduction of 348 is [15](15), which is the secret number, or extension of 5. The first root חם, is also [Ham](/keys/ChM) - see [58](58), for other numerals, see [13](13), [400](400), [636](636), [273](273), [600](600), [372](372), [395](395), [770](770), [570](570), [441](441).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *חמש, five. This word expressed a movement of contraction and of apprehension, as that which result from the five fingers of the hand grasping a thing, pressing tightly and warming it. Its root is double. חם, the first, designates the effect of the second, מש, that is to say, the former depicts the general envelopment, the heat which results and the effect of the contractive movement impressed by the latter."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.153]

> A. Of the root חם, Fabre D'Olivet writes: *"The sign of elementary existence, symbol of every effort and every labor, united to the sign of exterior activity, and employed as collective and generalizing sign, forms an important root whose purpose it to signify, in a broad sense, a general envelopment and warmth which results, considered as an effect of contractile movement. חם. Idea of that which is obtuse; curved, hot, obscure; enveloping, striking; a curvature; dejection; a compressive force: natural heat, solar fire, torrefaction and the burnish amorous passion, wrath, etc.*

> *The Arabic [word], having lost to a certain point, the intellectual ideas developed by the Hebraic root, is limited to expressing the particular ideas of warmth and heating; when reinforced by the guttural aspiration in [Arabic word], it signifies literally to be corrupted, spoiled, putrefied."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.352]

> B. *Of the root מש, he writes: "From the union of the sign of exterior activity with that of relative movement, or by contraction with elementary root אש sprigs a root whose purpose is to express that which is stirred by contractile movement. The Arabic [word] signifies properly to feel, touch, softly, brush lightly. מש everything palpable, compact, gathered: every pile, as a crop, harvest. That which is drawn, extracted, shrunken, as silk, etc."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.394]

---

### [le-olahm ayqeb](/keys/LOVLM.OQB) - לעולם עקב
> "to the end of the age (world)" [Psalm 114:112](http://biblehub.com/psalms/114-112.htm): *"I have inclined my heart to perform thy statues alway, even unto the end."* Hebrew translation is: forever at every step. see the many meanings of OQB, [172](172), [2678](2678) (Greek).

---

### [bekol ha-ertz](/keys/BKL-HARTz) - בכל־הארץ
in all the world; in all the earth. The world is the physical plane. see [291](291), [296](296).

- [Genesis 41:57](https://biblehub.com/genesis/41-57.htm): *"And all countries came into Egypt to Joseph for to buy corn; because that the famine was so sore **in all lands**"*
- [Exodus 9:14](https://biblehub.com/exodus/9-14.htm): *"For I will at this time send all my plagues upon thine heart, and upon thy servants, and upon thy people; that thou mayest know that there is none like me **in all the earth**"*
- [Exodus 9:16](https://biblehub.com/exodus/9-16.htm): *"And in very deed for this cause have I raised thee up, for to shew in thee my power; and that my name may be declared **throughout all the earth**"*

---

### See Also:

- [15](15)
- [6](6)
- [Bible Wheel: 348](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=348)

