## 351 - Three Hundred Fifty-One
> (13x27) Σ26 = 351

### [ha ratzone](/keys/HRTzVN) - הרצון
> the Will, the good pleasure. The [20th Path](20) of [Yod](/keys/I). *"The 20th path is called the intelligence of Will. It forms all patterns, and to know this intelligence is to know all the reality of the primordial wisdom."*

> [Rawtzone](/keys/RTzVN) [רצון], "Will," by its four letters represent radiant energy or fire (ר); air (צ); earth (ו); and water (ן). The occult significance of the word relates to the idea of a synthesis of the 4 elements, which synthesis is none other than the One Reality, the Ancient of Days represented by the Hermit, and customarily designated by the Divine Name Jehovah. What men feel in their very bodies as the power called "will" is the surge of the light-force through blood stream and nerve and tissue. see [346](346), [701](701), [1001](1001).

### [Enash](/keys/ANSh) - אנש
> man. Chaldee for man and a title of Tiphareth. This relates once again to the personality complex of man -- the six subdivisions of Ruach -- as the instrument of dominion over the formative Yetziratic forces. see [357](357).

### [nissha](/keys/NShA) - נשא
> Exalted; elevated, lofty. Suggest the forces of Malkuth as the bride who sits on the throne of Binah. Consider also as an Epithet of יה, [Jah](/keys/IH). Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.599] gives: elevatus, and says it is regarded by some as Tiphareth, by others as Kether; the Zohar refers it to Binah which is above Geburah.

### [nahsha](/keys/NShA) - נשא
> to lend, be a creditor, to forget. In the sense of "to forget," as מנשה, [Manasseh](/keys/MNShH).

### [nasa](/keys/NShA) - נשא
> to lift up, to raise, to exact. Implies that the extension of the powers represented by the name יהוה has a tendency to raise man above the level of mere homo sapiens, or man as the result of the evolutionary process, to the higher level of adeptship or sainthood.

### [shemayah](/keys/ShMIA) - שמיא
> heaven, heavens (Chaldee) [Daniel 4:20](http://biblehub.com/daniel/4-20.htm). *"The tree that thou sawest, which grew, and was strong, whose height reached unto the heaven, and the sign thereof to all the earth."* Shemia always represents the level of life activity called superconsciousness. Root-meaning is lifted up. see [1035](1035).

### [Ishim](/keys/AShIM) - אשים
> "The fiery ones," flames. The choir of angles associated with Malkuth in Yetzirah (10 of Swords). The masculine plural of אש, fire. [Note: When J. Craik Patton received the instruction on the Cube from O.M.S it was called "the flaming cube"]. Mathers gives in [Sepher Sephiroth, p. 38]: "Burnt or incense offering." see [80](80), [301](301), [911](911).

### [Ertz Nod](/keys/ARTz.NVD) - ארץ נוד
> "The land of Nod", where Cain found his wife. [Genesis 4:16](http://biblehub.com/genesis/4-16.htm) *"And Cain went out from the presence of the Lord, and dwelt in the land of Nod, on the east of Eden."* see [570](570), [443](443), [20](20), [60](60), [1161](1161).

### [peree beten](/keys/PRI.BTN) - פרי בטן
> children, offspring. literally "fruit of the womb".

### [niqeraw](/keys/NQRA) - נקרא
> to call oneself; to be called, be summoned; to be called, be named; to happen to be, to meet by chance; to be read aloud, be recited. [From קרא. "to call".]

### [eshikol](/keys/AShKL) - אשכל
> cluster of grapes, bunch; fig. great scholar; cyclopedia. see [439](439).

### [Moses](/keys/MVShH) - מושה
> Moses, the initiator. variant spelling. see [345](345).

### [sumawh](/keys/ShVMH) - שומה
> determination; determined. In the Interlinear Bible it is translated "intention" in [2 Samuel 13:32](http://biblehub.com/2_samuel/13-32.htm): *"But Jonadab son of Shimeah, David's brother, said, 'My Lord should not think that they killed all the princes; only Amnon is dead. This has been Absalom's expressed intention ever since the day Amnon raped his sister Tamar.'"*

### See Also:

- [9](9)
