## 355 - Three Hundred Fifty-Five
> (5x71)

### [nawsheh](/keys/NShH) - 
> thigh-nerve; to forget, to lend, to exact payment. see 360.

### [sephirah](/keys/SPIRH) - 
> a sphere, divine emanation; number, counting, writing, recording, quantitative category. A technical term employed to designate one of the 10 distinct intelligible aspects of the Life-power.

### [shawnaw](/keys/ShNH) - 
> year; to do again, repeat, to change, alter, to be different; to study; to teach. Suggest the spiraling cycles of emanation and the paths linking the spheres of the Tree of Life. [Genesis 5:3] "And Adam lived a hundred and thirty years [ShNH], and begat a son in his own likeness, after his image; and called his name Seth." This verse is rendered by Fabre D'Olivet: "And Adam existed three tens and one hundred cycles (of temporal ontological mutation); and he produced according to his assimilating action, in his reflected shadow, and emanated being, and he called his name Sheth (basis and foundation of all things)."

> He comments: "ShNH, revolving change... The Hellenists, and Saint Jerome following these unreliable masters, have rendered it by eros, "Annus", a year. But they have, as it their custom, restricted what was taken in a broad sense, and applied to a particular revolution, that which was applicable to an universal, ontological revolution. I have already spoken of this word in v. 14. Chapter I. Its root is ShN which we have just now seen to be that of number two and containing every idea of mutation, of variation, of temporal mutation, relative to the being which is this object. The Hebraic tongue has several terms for expressing the idea of temporal duration. OVD characterizes the same state continued, an actual duration; as relation, we translate it be still; HDSh, carries the idea of a beginning of existence, either in the order of things, or in the order to time: in its most restricted sense, it means a monthly duration: ShNH is applied to the transition of this same existence, to a mutation of the being: that is to say, that the being which is its object, is not found at the end of the period which it expresses, at the same point or the same state that it was at its beginning: in the more restricted sense, it is the space of a year: finally, the last of these terms it ShNB, which should mean every revolution which replaces the being in its original state. These divers periods, always relative to the being to which they are applied, can mean the most limited duration as well as that whose limits escape human understanding. The numbers one, two and seven take their roots from this. [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.155-156]

### [shenah](/keys/ShNH) - 
> sleep, slumber. The pralaya or resting period between cycles of manifestation. it is said that "life is a dream"; the universe is thought into manifestation periodically, by the meditation of God.

### [Lisna-har](/keys/LISBHR) - 
> Angel ruling the fist decanate of Leo. This decanate is ruled by the Sun, and suggest the qualities of sincerity; amiableness and dignity. The sun is the center of the local universe.

### [Asmodi](/keys/AShMDI) - 
> Asmodeus "Creature of Judgement", King of the Demons. A Persian rather than a Jewish devil (Aeshma deva), he is regarded in Jewish lore as a evil spirit. An opponent of Soloman and ruler of the south. It was Ashmodai who made Noah ("rest, cessation", #58) drunk, slew the 7 bridegrooms of the young Sarah ("princess", #510), and who, overcome by the anger Raphael ("God the Healer", #311), was finally 'banished to upper Egypt', [Davidson]. Egypt is a symbol of the astral plane; "Princess" suggest Malkuth, the physical plane.

### [meonawh Elohei qedem](/keys/MONH ALHI QDM) - 
> "The eternal God is thy refuge (dwelling place). [Deuteronomy 33:27] "The eternal God is thy refuge, and underneath are the everlasting arms: and he shall thrust out his enemy from before thee; and shall say, destroy them. see 915.

### [Orpah](/keys/ORPH) - עורף
> Orphah, mother of Goliath. Goliath (443) means "captivity, bondage" and is related to the dark body (Key 15) which fills the alchemical vase of art. see 1076, 443.

> [Ruth 1:4](https://biblehub.com/ruth/1-4.htm): *"And they took them wives of the women of Moab; the name of the one was Orpah, and the name of the other Ruth: and they dwelled there about ten year"*

### See Also:

- [13](13)
- [4](4)
