## 36 - Thirty-Six (6x6)
> Σ8 = 36. Value of the 7 constituent lines of a heptagram. The Pythagoreans call 36 "agreement" since it is the first number in which odd numbers being added together agree with even numbers. 1+3+5+7 = 16; 2+4+6+8 = 20. 16 +20 = 36 = 6x6.

> Attributed to Geburah, it means "The Confirmed". The Zohar [II:211A p. 298] says: *"there being nine Hayoth [Living Creatures] on each of the four sides of the universe, the total number is 36."*

---

### [be-koako](/keys/BKChV) - 
> by his (Her) power. [Jeremiah 10:12](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/10-12.htm). Refers to the Life-power as dwelling within itself and as working throughout the field of manifestation from within. See 683, 46, 252, 315, 154, 224, 314, 29.

---

### [ohel](/keys/AHL) - 
> tabernacle; tent. [Rev. 21:3](http://biblehub.com/revelation/21-3.htm); [Exodus 40:34](http://biblehub.com/exodus/40-34.htm). Refers to the idea of the universe as the abode, or dwelling place, of the Life-power. The dwelling place of the Shekinah.

> In the prologue of the Zohar [I:6]: *" MI, was the beginning of the edifice, existant and not-existant, deep-buried, unknowable by name. It was only called MI (who). It desired to become manifest and to be called by name. It therefore clothed itself in a refulgent and precious garment and created ALH (these), and ALH acquired a name. The letters of the two names intermingled, forming the complete name ALHIM (Elohim-God)."* see 86.

---

### [Eloah](/keys/ALH) - 
> God. A variant of AL. A metathesis of AHL, to hint that God is His own tabernacle. Also, to be strong, strength, an oak. Goddess of Geburah.

---

### [halah](/keys/HLA) - 
> to removed, cast away; case far off. [Micah 4:7](http://biblehub.com/micah/4-7.htm): *"and I will make her that halted a remnant, and her that was cast off a strong nation: and the Lord shall reign over them in Mount Zion, from hence forth, even forever."* see 165.

---

### [veidivi](/keys/VIDVI) - 
> confession.

---

### [lav, lu](/keys/LV) - 
> perhaps, possibly; would that, O that! also LV, glory. [Deuteronomy 33:17](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/33-17.htm): *"His glory is like the firstling of his bullock..."* see 806. Godwin gives: LA (lo). Not, no.

> Fabre D'Olivet gives: *"LA. this root is symbol of the line prolonged to infinity, of movement without term, or action whose duration is limitless: thence, the opposed ideas of being and nothingness, which it uses in developing the greater part of its compounds. the Arabic [word] develops the same ideas as the Hebrew root. In a restricted sense [it] is represented by the negative adverbial relations no, not. The verb signifies literally to shine, sparkle, glisten."*

> *"LA or LVA it is in general, an indefinite expansion, and absence without term expressed is an abstract sense by the relations, no, not, not at all, definite direction, that is to say, that which is restrained by means of the assimilative sign Kaph, is opposed to it. see KH or KN."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored p. 377]

---

### [bawdal](/keys/BDL) - 
> be divided, separate, Root of HBDLH, Habdalah, a dividing, sundering, separating. Connected with Zain (see 46).

---

### [Leah](/keys/LAH) - 
> First wife of Jacob.

---

### [leah](/keys/LAH) - 
> weariness, exhaustion; the proper name Leah, daughter of Laban, and Jacob's first wife through the Father's ruse. [Genesis 29:23](http://biblehub.com/genesis/29-23.htm): *"And it came to pass in the evening that he [Laban] took Leah his daughter, and brought her to him [Jacob]; and he went in unto her."*

> Godwin also gives: Mother of Reuben [259], Simeon [466], Levi, Judah [30], Issachar 9830] and Zebulun [95].

---

### [eikaw](/keys/AIKH) - 
> How? where? How and where is the power of God to be found? In the glory of his silence. [Godwin: Hebrew title of the book of Lamentations]

---

### [Jahviah](/keys/IHVIH) - 
> "God who knows all things." 33rd Shemhamphorash variant spelling. see 39. angel of the 3 of Pentacles or Binah in Assiah. see 965, 1525, 24.

---

### [kabodi](/keys/KBDI) - 
> my glory.

---

## Latin/Greek:

---

### [Aqua](/latin?word=Aqua) (Lt)
> water. This water is the universal substance which fill the "deep". Here it should be remembered that Venus is fabled to have sprung from the sea.

---

### [Damcar](/latin?word=Damcar) (Lt)
> a "place" in "Arabia" where brother C.R. was initiated. As DM-KR (264) Damcar means "the blood of the Lamb," which is the "water of life." This is a correspondence life that between

---

### [Argentum vivum](/latin?word=Argentum+vivum) (Lt)
> the water of the sages, and DM-ONB, Dam-enab, "The blood of the grape." Note the same colors, white and red. see 264, 166, 30 (Lt).

---

### See Also:

- 9
