## 361 - Three Hundred Sixty-One
> (19x19)

---

### [Adonai Ha-Eretz](/keys/ADNI.HARTz) - אדני הארץ
> Lord of Earth (Malkuth). Divine name associated with Malkuth, Earth and the North. see [7](7), [496](496).

---

### [beer mem Chaim](/keys/BAR.MIM.ChIIM) - באר מים חיים
> "A well of living waters". [Song of Songs 4:15](http://biblehub.com/songs/4-15.htm) *"A fountain of gardens, a well of living waters, and streams from Lebanon."* Lebanon is the 'white mountain". see [138](138), [53](53), [130](130).

---

### [Cassiel](/keys/KShIAL) - כשיאל
> Angel ruler of Saturn. The angel of solitudes and tears who *"shows forth the unity of the eternal kingdom",* also a ruling prince of the heaven and one of the princes of the Order of Powers. Sometimes he appears as the angel of temperance [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.82] Liberator of the kundalini force -- the "fire of illumination." see [400](400), [406](406).

---

### [Mitzrael](/keys/MTzRAL) - מצראל
> Justus; "God who comforts the oppressed." 60th Shemhamphorash, GENA. 296°-300°. For the cure of mental illness and deliverance form those who persecute us. [Psalm 145:17](http://biblehub.com/psalms/145-17.htm): *"the Lord is righteous in all his ways, and holy in all his works."* Justus dominus in omnibus viis suis, et sanctus in omnibus operibus suis. Persons born are virtuous and have longevity. negative influence: insubordinate beings. see [965](965), [1525](1525).

> Godwin also attributes this angel to the 6th quinance (26°-30°) of Taurus, and says it is the angle by night of the 7 of Pentacles. This corresponds to the operation of Netzach, sphere of Venus, in Assiah, the material of manifested results. Davidson adds that *"Mitzrael induces obedience on the part of inferiors toward superiors. His corresponding angel is Homath."* [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.197] see [330](330).

---

### [Yah shemo](/keys/IH.ShMV) - יה שמו
> also: "his name Yah". [Psalm 68:4](http://biblehub.com/psalms/68-4.htm): *"Sing unto God, sing praises to his name: extol him who rides upon the heavens by his name Jah, and rejoice before him."* see [363](363).

---

## Greek

---

### [amnos](/greek?word=amnos) (Gr) - ἀμνὸς
> Lamb; an epithet of Christ, who is "the lamb of God", sacrificed for the remission of sins. [Acts 8:32](http://biblehub.com/acts/8-32.htm): *"Now the portion of the scripture which he was reading was this: 'As to a sheep he was led to the slaughter, and like a lamb before the shearer is dumb, so he opens not his mouth."* see [431](431), [915](915), [1665](1665), [1685](1685), [1785](1785).

---

### [diathekeh halos](/greek?word=diathhkh.alos) (Gr) - διαθήκη ἁλός
> "A covenant of salt". Septuagint translation (διαθήκην ἁλός, #[411](411)) of ברית מלח, [berith melakh](/keys/BRITh.MLCh) (#[690](690)) in [2 Chronicles 13:5](http://biblehub.com/2_chronicles/13-5.htm): *"Do you know that the Lord God of Israel has given the kingdom of Israel to David and his descendants forever, by a covenant of salt?"* Note that salt is the third alchemical principle, denoting embodiment. It is attributed to Binah, sphere of Saturn. see [690](690); [60](60), (Greek); [411](411) (Gr).

---

### See Also:

- [10](10)
- [1](1)
