## 365 - Three Hundred Sixty-Five
> [5](5) x [73](73). The hypotenuse of the 13th Pythagorean triangle having altitude of 27 and base of 364. Number of days in a year. Age of [Enoch](/keys/ChNVK) before God took him. [Genesis 5:23](https://biblehub.com/genesis/5-23.htm): *"And all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty and five years"*

---

### [parthenon](/greek?word=parthenon) (Gr) - παρθένον
Virgin. See [456](456). [Luke 1:27](): *"To a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin's name was Mary."*

---

###/keys/NShIH Neshiah
> Forgetfulness, Oblivion; Pasture land. One of the 7 Earths corresponding to Tiphareth. Psalm 88:12: "Shall thy wonders by known in the Dark? Or thy faithfulness in Oblivion." see [656](656), [23](23), [291](291), [50](50), [14](14), [105](105), [302](302), [432](432), [337](337).

---

### [mah shehaiah](/keys/MH-ShHIH) - 
> The thing that hath been [Ecclesiastes 1:9, 3:14]. In the Hebrew translation: "That which hath been." MH also meaning: "what", it may be "What has been." ["That which has been is that which shall be." HVA is translated "That," as a demonstrative pronoun.] see [707](707).

---

### [peyriah](/keys/PRIOH) - 
> uncovering, removing mourner's wrap; removing the membrane of the corona at circumcision; paying of debt; letting hair grown neglect; destruction; ruination.

---

### [Ruach Elohim Adonai](/keys/RVCh.ALHIM.ADNI) - 
> The Spirit (or life) of the Creative Powers of the Lord. A divine name of God. see [300](300), [65](65), [216](216), [86](86).

---

### [Amru Hachamim](/keys/AMRV.ChKMIM) - 
> "The wise men have spoken it." [Vaughan: Magica Adamica, page 87].

---

### [IHVH Igaymer baedi](/keys/IHVH.IGMR.BODI) - 
> *"The Lord will accomplish that which concerns me* [Psalm 138:8]. IGNR means (Hebrew Lexicon): to end, finish, complete, accomplish, to conclude, decide, resolve. BOD means: through, about, for, in behalf of, for the sake of. Literally: Tetragammaton will perfect what is around me, viz. perfection of environmental conditions. see [86](86), [253](253), [26](26).

> BOD means: through, about, for, in behalf of, for the sake of. Literally, *"Tetragrammaton will perfect what is around me", viz. perfection of environmental conditions-Paul Case]. see [86](86), [253](253), [26](26). "If we do not oppose (Verse 8) God's working he can perfect it in us. It is the self-manifestation of the of the divine in us, as us and through us, and is therefore the supreme evolution; and we therefor we must never fear its failure to work forwards, to perpetual advance, if we recognize and follow its principles"* (Philippians 1:6 " Being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ.") [Troward on Psalms, p.184]

> Paul Case comments: *"Tetragrammaton will perfect that which concerns me, IHVH IGMR BODI literally. 'Tetragrammaton will perfect what is around me' = 365. The number itself is suggestive, for there is no doubt the Qabalist knew the approximate number of days in the year. The idea is that Tetragrammaton is a power which completes and brings to perfection the environment of man. Not that 'what is around me' is BODI = [86](86) = OBRI = servants = HThBO nature = ALHIM, Gods. 'in him we live and move and have our being'. The surrounding of man (BODI) are what he calls 'nature' (HThBO), but nature is simply the complex of forces which are the servants of Tetragrammaton (OBDI) cf. Psalm 134:1: 'Behold, bless ye the Lord, all ye servants of the Lord, which by night stand in the house of the Lord.') And these are the 'gods', the creative powers, or ALHIM. The point is that ALHIM is the name for the aspect of God as "God of Forces', and this name is assigned in Qaballah to Binah, the mother. But Jah, or Tetragrammaton, is the 'God of Mercy and Life', the father, whose servants the Elohim are. This does not at all imply that the Elohim are Gods other than Tetragrammaton. As we may say of an man that his 'nature' is the sum-total of his powers, and that those powers are the expression of what he really is, in himself, so do we say of God that Jah or Tetragrammaton describes him as the supreme life, while Elohim describes the creative powers whereby that life is manifested, and therefor the Elohim are the servants of Tetragrammaton and constitute, in their expression, the nature which surrounds man. But surroundings, nature, servants, and the one whence they proceed are all aspects of a single reality."* [IBID, pp.185-186]

---

### [ha-shin](/keys/HShIN) - 
> the tooth. A reference to the letter Shin connected with spiritual fire and transfiguration or resurrection. A transposition of letters or metathesis of ShINH (sleep). see [360](360), [300](300).

---

### [shinah](/keys/ShINH) - 
> sleep; according to Paul Case [The Tarot, p.175] it is a technical term in Rabbinical Hebrew, which is the function assigned to Qoph. In The Book of Formation [13] sleep is assigned to Samekh and is written ShNH; laughing is assigned to Qoph: "He let the letter Samekh predominate in sleep, crowned it, combined one with the other, and formed by them: Sagittarius (the Archer) in the world, the month Kislev in the year, and the stomach of the human body, male and female. see [100](100), [186](186).

---

## Greek/Latin

---

### Abraxas (Gr)
> Gnostic name, coined by Basilides the Egyptian. The word symbol consisting of 7 letters which signify the 7 creative powers (Elohim) or planetary angels recognized by the ancients [Manly Hall, Secret Teachings]. see [86](86).

---

### belenos (Gr)
> Anything thrown about, arrow, dart. Those of Apollo (Sun) and Artemis (moon) are used of sudden, easy death. Bel was a personification in Chaldea of the Sun Deity. May allude to Key 13. The Apocryphal Bel and the Dragon added to the Book of Daniel, as proof that the Idol was not a living God.

---

### mithras
> The god of the Sun among the Persians, represented as a handsome youth, kneeling of a bull, whose throat he was cutting.

---

### Nilus (Latin)
> The Nile, principal River of Egypt. Here may symbolize the subconscious flow of the mind-stuff (see Key 2).

---

### Sardin, Sardis (Lt)
> One of the most ancient and famous cities of Asia Minor; identified with on of the 7 alchemical "churches," corresponding to Venus and the throat center, or laryngeal plexus, one of the Keys to inner hearing.

---

### See Also:

- [14](14)
- [5](5)
- [Bible Wheel: 365](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=365)

