## 367 - Three Hundred Sixty-Seven
> (prime)

---

### [Shin + Samekh + Zain](/keys/Sh.S.Z) - ש ס ז
> tooth (spiritual fire) + prop, support + sword. Shin is the letter of truth, of communion with God, and connects the Mars and Sun faces on the Cube of Space. Samekh connects Tiphareth and Yesod on the Tree of Life, and in יסוד [Yesod](/keys/ISVD) represents the form-giving power of Binah which supports all forms of manifestation below it on the tree. Zain is a combination of Yod (Yod or wisdom, יה [Yah](/keys/IH)) and Vav (Vav or beauty, בן [Ben](/keys/BN)). Thus Ben-Yah or "son of God" (Zain) plus mother (Samekh) plus perpetuity (Shin). see [300](300), [60](60), [7](7).

---

### [Phaikuron](/keys/PAIKVRN) - פאיכורן
> Day demon of 3rd decanate of Gemini. This decanate is co-ruled by Saturn and Uranus and suggest conscious imbalance, resulting in negative qualities of secretiveness and adaptability to persons and surroundings, characterized by the co-rulers of Aquarius. The 3rd decanate of Gemini is also attributed to the 10 of Swords or Malkuth, the kingdom of physical manifestation expressing the primal formative forces. The subtle astral forces in limited specific forms veil and conceal their true nature. Negative habit patterns and responses impressed in the formative Yetziratic substance have here been crystallized into automatic expression, resulting in failure, desolation, misery and destruction. The remedy is to use concentration to put an end to delusion, overthrow limiting conditions and break-up of physical, psychical and emotional restrictions by perceiving the core reality behind all things.

---

### Greek/Latin:

---

### [ex scriptis Theologicis Theophrasti](/latin?word=ex+scriptis+Theologicis+Theophrasti) (Lt)
[ex](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=ex) [scriptis](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=scriptis) [Theologicis](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=Theologicis) [Therophrasti](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paracelsus): *"out of the theological works of Theophrastus".* The name of a manuscript published by [Adam Haselmeyer](/english?word=Adam+Haselmeyer).

---

### See Also:

- [16](16)
- [7](7)
