## 369 - Three Hundred Sixty-Nine
> (9x41). Constant summation of a magic square of the Moon.

---

### [Olahm Ha Briah](/keys/OVLM.HBRIAH) - עולם ה בריאה
> The World of Creation, associated with the 9 of Cups and the creative powers of the Moon intimates that the creative forces are powers whereby the Life-power reflects Itself to Itself as the moon reflects the light of the sun. The world includes Chesed, Geburah, and Tiphareth. Briah is the world of created intelligence, and of the emanation of created forces. These are the Elohim ([86](86)), which are designated in the English Bible as "God" ([Genesis 1:1](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-1.htm)). There association with the Spirit of the Moon hints that the creative forces are powers where by the Life-power reflects itself to itself, as the Moon reflects the Light of the Sun. see [217](217).

---

### [Nekhushah](/keys/NChVShH) - נחושה
> copper, (brass). In [Job 28:2](http://biblehub.com/job/28-2.htm): *"Brass is molten out of the stone."*

> Copper is the metal of Venus and is therefore connected with ideas of fecundity, germination, growth and desire fulfillment (Key 3). The creative forces behind all growth are mental powers, because all cosmic activities are expressions of Life and Mind. There a the forces of imagery, giving from to the manifestations of the Life-power. It is highly probable that copper was chosen as the mental representing these forces because: 1) The mirrors of the ancients were made of burnished copper; 2) copper, being soft, is easily shaped. This connects it also with the 9 of Cups whose specific meaning is fulfillment of desire. see also [9](9), [3321](3321), [80](80).

> The correspondence between NChVShH, copper and OVLM HBRIAH is of special importance, see [628](628); [921](921) (Greek); [1458](1458).

---

### [Kasmodai](/keys/ChShMVDAI) - חשמודאי
> Spirit of the Moon.

---

### [kelal-peret](/keys/KLL-PRT) - כלל־פרט
> to liberate and complete, generally and specially. In this case it refers to the great work in the microcosm. see [80](80), [289](289).

---

### [Shahdani](/keys/ShHDNI) - שהדני
> Angel ruling the 2nd decanate of Gemini. This decanate is ruled by Venus, and suggest qualities of: kindness, cleverness and polished in speech and writing. Natives are more artistic and feeling, and have sympathy and an understanding and acceptance of various points of view [EA-32]. These qualities are essential to the creation of the "new man".

---

### [shegiown](/keys/ShGIVN) - שגיון
> enthusiastic song, hymn, dythyramb (according to some, a musical instrument). [Psalm 7:1] "Song of David, which he sang unto the Lord, concerning Cush, a Benjamite." see [14](14), [326](326), [162](162).

---

### [wehanachash](/keys/VHNChSh) - והנחש
> now the serpent. ([Genesis 3:1](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-1.htm)).

---

### [ashibenu](/keys/AShIBNV) - אשיבנו
> I will bring back (Locks).

---

### [bemiskba](/keys/BMShKBH) - במשכבה
> her bed.

---

### [hashemdeka](/keys/HShMDK) - השמדך
> you be destroyed (Locks). Destruction is the Foundation of Existence (Book of Tokens). Peh = 80 = Yesod.

---

### [wayhi-shelach](/keys/) - ויהי־שלח
and lived Salah. [Genesis 11:15](https://biblehub.com/genesis/11-15.htm): *"**And Salah lived** after he begat Eber four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters"*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [themelios](/greek?word=themelios) (Gr) - θεμελιος
> foundation. With the foundation-stone. There is a connection with ISVD Yesod. see [80](80), [439](439), [1254](1254), [1850](1850).

> - Also elementary doctrine and instruction, as Θεμε in [Ephesians 2:20](http://biblehub.com/ephesians/2-10.htm) *"Having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus being a foundation cornerstone of it (21) on which all the building being fitly compacted together, increases into a holy temple for the Lord; (22) on whom you are also built up together, for a spiritual habitation of God."*
> - Written Θεμ in [Hebrews 6:1](http://biblehub.com/hebrews/6-1.htm) *"Therefore, leaving the first principles of the doctrine of the anointed one, we should progress towards maturity, not again laying down a foundation for reformation from works of death, and of faith in God."*
> - Spoken of Christ in [1 Corinthians 3:12, 13](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=1+Corinthians+3%3A12-13&version=AKJV;SBLGNT): *"And if on this foundation (Θεμε ) any one build up gold, silver, costly stones; wood, hay, straw; the work of each day will become manifest; for the day will show it, because it is revealed by fire; and so every one's work, whatever it is, the same fire will prove."*
> - Also written Θεμ in [1 Timothy 6:19](http://biblehub.com//.htm): "Treasuring up for themselves a good foundation for the future, that they may lay hold of that which is really life."
> - Finally, written Θεμε in [2 Timothy 2:19](http://biblehub.com//.htm). *"However, the firm foundation of God stands, having this inscription, "The Lord knows those who are his,' and 'let every one who names the name of the Lord depart from iniquity.'"*

---

### [Mathehtai](/greek?word=mathhtai) (Gr) - μαθηται
> Learners (of mental discipline). Persons instructed in "Methesis," the special mental discipline of the secret schools. It means literally "the learners," and as a noun: "Mathematics". Thus it has to do with the knowledge of numbers and geometry. In the New Testament, the same noun, Mathetai, is used to designate the disciples.

---

### See Also:

- [18](18)
- [9](9)
- [Bible Wheel: 369](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=369)


