## 372 - Three Hundred Seventy-Two
> (3x4x31)

---

### [oseb](/keys/OShB) - עשב
> green herbs, tender plants, green fodder. Human life is also represented by the word oseb, as in the phrase: *"They of the city shall flourish like grass (oseb) of the earth."* ([Psalm 72:16](http://biblehub.com/psalms/72-16.htm)). In [Key 13](13), alchemical water-the sperm of the world is the substance man seems to multiply in the reproduction of his species. Used in Psalm 102 as a figure of speech for the transitory, ephemeral life of the human personality. *("My days are like a shadow that declines; and I am withered like grass").* Compare with St. German's mention of a green branch, under אספירכא. see [2625](2625).

> In [Genesis 3:18](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-18.htm), this word is translated "herbs": *"Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to you; and you shall eat the herb of the field."*

> Fabre D'Olivet renders this verse: *"and harsh and rough (imperfect and disordered) productions shall germinate abundantly for thee; and thou shall feed upon bitter and withered fruits of elementary nature." He comments: "עשב, upon the most sharp and wasted fruits of nature... we know that the primitive root אש is applied, in general, to the elementary principle of things, and in particular, to fire. We also know that by reinforcing the initial vowel Aleph, it suffices to increase progressively its force. Now, if the word which is the subject of this note, is composed of the contracted roots עש־אב,  of which there is no doubt, it will signify not simply χοπτος (#[1320](1320)), dried grass, herb of the field, following the interpretation of the Hellenist, weakened by Saint Jerome; but indeed, a sharp and wasted fructification. For this is the true meaning of the word עשב. The Arabic [word] is explicit."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.115](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/114)]

> F.J. Mayers observes: *"All that on a casual reading sounds like punitive measures, proves, on closer examination to be remedial and helpful, intended to lead man to happiness and to strengthen him with hope. The disturbance and disordering of the Adamah results in human development becoming a matter of anxiety and labor. But the first thing God says is that in spite of thorns and thistles (of the mind and soul), "Adam" shall eat of the green herb -- the grass of the field. That was exactly the food provided by nature for the higher animals (taking the words quite in a literal sense); and in their limited, animal existence it suffices for their needs; they flourish on it happily enough... just as he gives the cattle on a thousand hills their 'meat in due season', so God promises to provide for the simple material needs of man. But it means more than that. Adam's trouble was 'human' trouble, trouble of the mind and spirit. Ignorance of the way to use his higher faculties aright... God promises to continue to him, while his human elements are developing, the 'instinctive' guidance by which the lives of animals are ordered."* [[The Unknown God, ch. 27](http://www.organelle.org/as/aschap27.htm)]

---

### [sawbeah](/keys/ShBO) - שבע
> to be full, filled, satisfied; sated, have in excess. This substance contains all we can desire for the satisfaction of every need. [Proverbs 27:7](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/27-7.htm) *"The full soul loathes a honeycomb; but to the human soul every bitter thing is sweet."* And in [Deuteronomy 33:23](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/33-23.htm) *"And of [Naphtali](/keys/NPThLI) [#[570](570)] he [Moses] said, O Naphtali, satisfied with favor, and fill with the blessing of the Lord: possess the west and the south."*

---

### [sawbaw](/keys/ShBO) - שבע
> plenty, abundance, fill, satiety, copiousness. It is available in abundance-a direct result of reproduction. [Ecclesiastes 5:10](http://biblehub.com/ecclesiastes/5-10.htm): *"He that loves silver shall not be satisfied with silver; nor he that loves abundance with increase: this is also vanity."* And in [Genesis 41:29](http://biblehub.com/genesis/41-29.htm): *"Behold, there come seven years of great plenty throughout all the land of Egypt."*

> Also: written שבע sabah. satiety, fullness. [Exodus 16:3](http://biblehub.com/exodus/16-3.htm): *"The children of Israel said to them, 'Would to God we had died by the hand of the Lord in the Land of Egypt, when we sat by the fleshpots, and when we ate bread to fullness; for you have brought us out into this wilderness, to kill this whole assembly with hunger."* And in [Psalm 16:11](http://biblehub.com/psalms/16-11.htm): *"You will show me the path of life: in your presence is fullness of joy; at your right hand there are pleasures forevermore."*

---

### [shawbah](/keys/ShBO) - שבע
> to swear, to bind with an oath, take an oath. Our use of the this power (Scorpio) entail certain definite obligations. [Genesis 21:31](http://biblehub.com/genesis/21-31.htm): *"Therefore he [Abraham] called that place Beersheba; because there they swore [an oath], both of them"*

> And in [Genesis 22:16](http://biblehub.com/genesis/22-16.htm): *"And [the angel of the Lord] said. 'by myself have I sworn', says the Lord, 'for because you have done this thing, and have not withheld your son, your only son."*

---

### [shehba](/keys/ShBO) - שבע
> The numeral 7, seven times, sevenfold.

> [1 Kings 10:1](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/10-1.htm): *"And when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon concerning the name of the LORD, she came to prove him with hard questions."*. The queen of Sheba is read as the Queen of Seven. The 7th Sephirah is the sphere of Venus. The Queen of Sheba is another aspect of what is called Hadassah (Myrtle) in the story of Esther (Ishtar). The seven are the occult planets, alchemical metals or interior stars (chakras). Also alchemical water is said to be the seed of the metals, which are 7 in number. see [74](74), [106](106), [756](756), [54](54), [50](50), [377](377), [764](764).

> [Isaiah 4:1](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/4-1.htm): *"And in that day seven women shall take hold of one man, saying, 'we will eat our bread, and wear our own apparel: only let us be called by your name, to take away our reproach.'"*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"שבע. seven. ...ideas of complement, of accomplishement, and of the consummation of things and of times."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.153](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/152)]

---

### [okareb](/keys/OQRB) - עקרב
> Scorpion, Scorpio, a fixed water sign.

---

### [kebeshim](/keys/KBShIM) - כבשים
> young lambs. A direct reference to the fiery quality hidden in alchemical water. The male lamb symbolizes the alchemical fire of Aries, the Ram. Both Aries and Scorpio are ruled by Mars.

---

### [Asfeerka](/keys/ASPIRKA) - אספירכא
> Water of Mercury, or mercurial water, astral water. A term applying to alchemical Mercury. (See #[153](153) mihakoaim, also #[109](109) (Latin) [aqua spherica](/latin?word=aqua+spherica) "spherical water" symbolized in St. Germaine's Trinosophia, by a picture of the bird of Hermes.) This water is the fiery solar fluid which as it flows through the human nervous system, is the actual substance which is given shape and form.

> The Aesch Mezareph [VII, p.39] says: *"This argent vive [living silver], in the gemara tract gittin, chapter 7, vol. 69, is called espherica, i.e. spherical water, because it flows from the mundane sphere."*

---

### [ishebi-benob](/keys/IShBV.BNB) - ישבו בנב
> "Resident of Nob". One of the sons of the giant. [2 Samuel 21:16](http://biblehub.com/2_samuel/21-16.htm): *"And Ishbibenob, which was of the sons of the giant, the weight of whose spear weighed three hundred shekels of brass in weight, he being girded with a new sword, thought to have slain David."* A priestly city, Nob, was on a hill immediately to the North of Jerusalem.

---

### [shawbis](/keys/ShBIS) - שביס
> net-work, hence, hair-net, headband. [Isaiah 3:18](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/3-18.htm): "In that day the Lord will snatch away their finery: the bangles and headbands and crescent necklaces." (Because the daughters of Zion have become haughty).

---

### [IHVH shemo](/keys/IHVH.ShMV) - יהוה שמו
> Yahweh is his name. [Godwin]. see [26](26), [340](340).

---

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
