## 375 - Three Hundred Seventy-Five
> (3x5x5x5)

---

### [Assiah](/keys/OShH) - עשה
> the 4th qabalistic world corresponding to the physical plane. The material world or world of action or manifestation.

---

### [ussawh](/keys/OShH) - עשה
> to be made, formed. Also: עשה issawh. to press, squeeze; to force, enforce. see [385](385), [425](425).

---

### [oseh](/keys/OShH) - עשה
> yielding. [Genesis 1:11, 12](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Genesis+1%3A11-12&version=KJV;WLC): *"And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is in itself, upon the earth: and it was so. And the earth brought forth grass, and herb yielding seed after his kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed was in itself, after his kind: and God saw that it was good."*

---

### [Shelomoh](/keys/ShLMH) - שלמה
> Solomon, meaning "Pacific". Wise King of Israel. Connected with the Sun and Tiphareth. Also Sol-om-on. see [1081](1081), [470](470), [596](596), [640](640).

---

### [saw'awh](/keys/ShOH) - שעה
> to be closed, dim, blind; for a moment, a while. Metathesis of עשה. Also: to gaze at, to regard; to look about, behold; to look away from (followed by Mem). When one regards the handiwork of the eternal, one is amazed. "Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it." Godwin gives: hour.

---

### [geyir pachem ve-tiyt](/keys/GIR.PChM.VTIT) - גיר פחם וטיט
> chalk, charcoal, and clay. Three elements of the lower man, used to "raise" him to a master builder, in a Freemasonry ritual. see [935](935); [213](213), [128](128), [28](28).

> Mackey, in his Encyclopedia of Freemasonry (p.156) writes: *"By these three substances are beautifully symbolized the three qualifications for the servitude of an entered apprentice -- freedom, fervency, and zeal. Chalk is the freest of all substances, because the slightest touch leaves a trace behind. Charcoal, the most fervent, because to it, when ignited, the most obdurate metals yield; and clay, the most zealous, because it's constancy employed in man's service, and is as constantly reminding us that from it we all came, and to it we all must return. In the earlier lectures of the last century, the symbols, with the same interpretation, were given as 'chalk, charcoal, and earthen pan'... Pan once signified hard earth, a meaning which is now obsolete."* (p.237).

---

### [shemlah](/keys/ShMLH) - שמלה
> a city of Edom Suggest unbalance force. Godwin: a king of Edom, associated with Netzach. see [51](51), [148](148).

---

### [ha-shalom](/keys/HShLM) - השלם
> the wholeness. Note it is equivalent to Solomon. Suggest balanced force. see [370](370).

---

### [Tzapporah](/keys/TzPRH) - צפרה
> Zipporah, "bird", wife of Moses. [Exodus 2:21](http://biblehub.com/exodus/2-21.htm): *"Moses agreed to stay with the man [in Midian], who gave his daughter Zipporah to Moses in marriage."*

---

### [kallal ve-peret](/keys/KLL.VPRT) - כלל ופרט
> generally and specially [Sepher Sephiroth, p.40].

---

### See Also:

- [15](15)
- [6](6)
