## 382 - Three Hundred Eighty-Two
> (2x191)

---

### [birqi'a](/keys/BRQIO) - ברקיע
"in the expanse".

> "in heaven". Translated "in-heaven-of' in the Interlinear Bible. [Genesis 1:14](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-14.htm): *"And God said, “Let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from the night."* see also [777](777).

> *"The physical expression of the duad is the firmament which separate the waters from the waters; it is the point of fixation which rules the movements of matters. It was represented at the gate of Solomon's temple by the pillars of Jakin and Boaz. The duad is unity reproducing itself to create, and this is why the sacred allegories picture Eve issuing from the very beast of Adam."* [Eliphas Levi]

> Paul Case note: Levi calls the duad the number of the firmament. It is also, according to him, the number of woman, i.e. of חוה [Eve](/keys/ChVH) =  19, and רקיע [raqi'a](keys/RQIO) = 20 x 19. see [380](380).

> [Psalm 150:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/150-1.htm): *"Praise ye the LORD. Praise God in his sanctuary: praise him **in the firmament** of his power."*

> *"The Psalms conclude with an acclamation of universal praise to 'the Lord', in both aspect as 'God' and as 'the Lord'. 'Everything that has breath' -- this is the principle of conscious individuality - the greater consciousness of individuality, the greater the praise that can be rendered. This is the true relation between the individual and the universal mind. When it is realized that the whole is interior and that 'the Lord' is to be found within, then the ascription of praise becomes the solution of the great problem which is that of the individualization of the universal and the universalation of the individual, and whatever we this interiorly praise God for becomes manifest in ourselves, therefore the two become one. This is the central simplicity in which differentiation ceases, and consequently, pure causation begins working out into better modes of differentiation and this again returning to the primal center and so on ad infinitum, thus providing a self -- renewing circulus for ever expanding to greater externalizations of love, beauty and power, in the individual expressing the universal."* [[Troward on Psalms: Psalm 150](http://newthoughtlibrary.com/trowardThomas/psalms/psalms_340.htm)]

---

### [bemisphar](/keys/BMSPR) - במספר
> in number. see [380](380).

> *"There are two grades that have to be distinguished, one of [mah](/keys/MH) (מה, #[45](45)) and one of [mi](/keys/MI) (מי, #[50](50)) - one of the higher and the other of the lower sphere. The higher is singled out here in the words 'he who brings forth by number their host'... 'by number: six hundred thousand are they, and they have in turn produced according to their kinds beyond all number... 'calls by name', to wit, he proclaimed his own name so as to bring about the emergence of each sort of being in its full form...' And mighty of strength: the word strength (KOACh) symbolizes the supernal world which assumed the name Elohim... 'By the abundance of powers' refer to the supreme grade where to all the volitions ascend by a mysterious path."* [Zohar I, p.8]

---

### [Tzaratz](/keys/TzARATz) - צאראץ
> Day demon of 3rd decanate of Libra. This decanate has rulership of mercury, suggesting subconscious imbalance, resulting in illogical, imperception and partiality. Self-consciousness is essential to praise.

---

## Latin

---

### [Per spiritum sanctum reviviscimus](/latin?word=Per+spiritum+sanctum+reviviscimus) (Lt)
> "Through the Holy Spirit we become alive again." This phrase is part of an inscription found in the vault of C.R. in the Allegory. see [683](683), [35](35), [113](113), [81](81), [153](153) Latin.

---

### See Also:

- [13](13)
- [4](4)
