## 386 - Three Hundred Eighty-Six
> (2x193)

---

### [Joshua](/keys/IShVO) - ישוע
> Jesus. Aramaic spelling of the name of the great Qabalistic Master.

> *"The short form of "Joshua"...shows Shin, the letter of Fire, combined with Yod, Vav and Ayin, the three letters that are assigned in the Sepher Yetzirah to the earth signs, Virgo, Taurus, and Capricorn, respectively. The name Jesus is the number 386, or 300 and 86. [300](300) is Shin (Fire), [86](86) is אהיה אדני, a name of God, asserting the identity of Kether and Malkuth; אלהים; and כוס, to preserve, to conceal; cup, goblet, receptaculum, hence pudenum mulibre, and pelican, a bird used in Rosicrucian symbology, so called on account of its throat resembling a cup or bag. The name אהיה אדני, which asserts the identity of Kether and Malkuth is the secret of the saying 'I and the Father are one." In this connection remember that the Holy Ghost came as fire, and that כוס, in all its meanings suggests the concealment, virgin birth, and preservation of the fire through the feminine principle."* [Paul Case of D.D. Bryant's Philosopher's Stone, VI, 7 + 8]. see [300](300), [86](86), [326](326), [67](67) Latin.

> [From Paul Case's notebook, From Day to Day, March 12, 1916]:

> > *"Jesus is ישוע Jehovah is יהוה. Thus Jesus and Jehovah, in Hebrew are identical in respect to the first and third letters, but different in respect to the 2nd and 4th. A Shin takes the place of the first Heh, and a Ayin of the second Heh. Now Shin corresponds to the Perpetual Intelligence, knowledge of perpetuity, changeless consciousness of the real nature of the Ego, and it is the liberating consciousness of personal immortality, that this recognition is the dominant characteristic of Jesus' teaching and personal consciousness. In the Tarot Shin corresponds to Judgement, a picture of resurrection with which the name of Jesus is inseparably identified. Thus the substitution of Shin for Heh in Jesus name is the substitution of Liberation for rulership. Jehovah is the ruler (For Heh is the Emperor) and his self-consciousness is that of the Constituting Intelligence. Jesus is the liberator, and his self-consciousness centers upon the idea of releasing men from bondage and death. The final letter of Jesus name is Ayin. In the Kabalah this is Renovating Intelligence, the knowledge that preserves and renews the personal existence. This letter is associated with the Devil, because the first step towards liberation is to recognize what evil really is, so that we can attribute to it absolutely no power to determine the course of our lives. The story of Jesus' temptation is a clue to this. Jesus did not teach because he had to overcome the Devil. And his way of doing so was the command: 'Get thee behind me Satan! Thou shall not tempt the Lord thy God.' When we realize that God is the principle of our lives, all evil is recognized as subordinate and without power. To fear the devil is to worship him. Therefore the Lord's prayer asks God not to lead us into temptation instead of pensioning him to allow us to be tempted by Satan.*

> > *Jesus, according to Cabalistic attributions of the letters, is consciousness of the Divine Will (Intelligence of Will) reflected in the realization that human personality is essentially immortal (Perpetual Intelligence, "My word shall not pass away."), and these two modes of consciousness are combined in the knowledge or Wisdom destined to Triumph over all error and failure (Vav, Triumphant and Eternal Intelligence) which is the true catholic church, having for its foundation Jesus' personal triumph over the Devil, and of the subordination of matter to thought, which is destined to make all things new (Renovating Intelligence). If we know the will of God (Yod) if we, by daily meditation, become habitually conscious of personal immortality (Shin); if we rely upon the ever-victorious and eternal wisdom within for guidance (Vav), if we fear no evil, and see no evil, and are conscious of our power to make all things new (Ayin), we have in us the mind which was in Christ Jesus.*

> > *The sum of the letters in Jesus name is 386. Articulated this is [300](300), [80](80), [6](6), or Shin, Peh, Vav. Consciousness if immortality (Shin) overthrows the structure of false science and common-sense (Peh), and makes us rely wholly on the guidance of the indwelling spirit (Vav). by reduction 386 is [17](17). Articulated this is [10](10), [7](7) or Yod and Zain. Consciousness of divine will and of our relation to it (Yod) is expressed in the harmonious relationship of the objective and subjective minds to each other, and to the supreme spirit, and this is a consciousness that enables us to make a right deposition of all our talents, powers and possession (Disposing Intelligence, Zain). By reduction 17 is [8](8), the same number that represent the final reduction of the letter values of יהוה. Thus the name Jehovah and the name Jesus are represented by the same root-idea. Thus the I AM, Jesus is the recognition of the identity of the personal self with the universal I AM. Both names imply knowledge of the dwelling place of the supreme spirit (Intelligence of House of Influence). Jehovah is the I AM saying: 'My temple is man, and my knowledge is the hearts of men.' Jesus is man saying 'I am the temple of God; God and I are essentially One, He rules in my heart.' The same truth is revealed in both names from opposites points of view.*

> > *The sum of the two names is [412](412). Articulated, this is [400](400), [10](10), [2](2) or Tav, Yod, Beth; Administrative Intelligence, Intelligence of Will, Intelligence of Transparency; the World, the Hermit, the Magician. By analogy [412](412) is the number of the Holy Ghost; since it proceeds from [26](26) (the Father) and the Son (386). Now the Hebrew word for Spirit is Ruach, spelled רוח, so that its numerical value is the sum of 200, 6 and 8. or 214. Note that 214 is 412 reversed. The same figures, then that enter into the number produced by the addition of the names of the father and son, which by analogy as the product of the numerical equivalent of the names of father and son, should be a number corresponding to spirit, are found in the number of the word, Ruach. The reduction is 7, the number of Zain, and the Holy Ghost is therefore seen to be the Disposing Intelligence, represented in Tarot by the Lovers. Now the sum of the reductions of three names is 8+8+7 or [23](23). Articulated, this is [20](20), [3](3) or Kaph and Gimel (Intelligence of Conciliation and Uniting Intelligence): Wheel and High Priestess. The Trinity, then is that which expresses itself in the Wisdom that reconciles all opposites, and the wisdom that unites man and God. The reduction of [23](23) is [5](5) or Heh: Constituting Intelligence or the Emperor. The Emperor, then is the symbol of trinity, regarding as the supreme wisdom constituting all the conditions of existence.*

> > *[386](386) - [26](26) = [360](360). This significant number is that which added to the number of Jehovah, produces Jesus. It is the number of the circumference, and the son is the circumference having the father for its center. Articulated 360 is 300, 60 or Shin and Samekh. Perpetual Intelligence and Intelligence of Probation or Trial. Jesus is the I AM, consciousness of immortality, and demonstrates that immortality by actual test or trial. Reduced to 360 is [9](9) or Teth. Intelligence of the Secret. Jesus is the I AM or God's knowledge that he dwells in the temple of man, expressed as consciousness of the Great Arcanum, that all the forces of nature are subject to the subjective mind of man when that reflects the I AM. This, as we see is the central doctrine of Jesus' teachings."*

---

### [waya'as](/keys/VIOSh) - ויעש
"And made". [Genesis 1:7](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-7.htm): *"And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament: and it was so."*

---

### [khereb la-IHVH mawleaw dawm](/keys/ChRB.LIHVH.MLAH.DM) - חרב ליהוה מלאה דם
> "The sword of IHVH is filled with blood." [Isaiah 34:6](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/34-6.htm): *"The sword of IHVH is filled with blood, it is made fat with fatness, and with the blood of the lambs and goats, with the fat of the kidneys of rams: for the lord has a sacrifice in Bozrah, and a great slaughter in the land of Idumea."* see [946](946).

---

### [min-haaretz](/keys/MN-HARTz) - מן־הארץ
from the land; out of the land.

- [Genesis 10:11](https://biblehub.com/genesis/10-11.htm): *"**Out of that land** went forth Asshur, and builded Nineveh, and the city Rehoboth, and Calah"*
- [Exodus 1:10](https://biblehub.com/exodus/1-10.htm): *"Come on, let us deal wisely with them; lest they multiply, and it come to pass, that, when there falleth out any war, they join also unto our enemies, and fight against us, and so get them up **out of the land**"*
- [Exodus 9:15](https://biblehub.com/exodus/9-15.htm): *"For now I will stretch out my hand, that I may smite thee and thy people with pestilence; and thou shalt be cut off **from the earth**"*

---

### [el-paroh](/keys/AL-PROH) - אל־פרעה
to Pharoah. see [355](355), [756](756).

- [Genesis 41:14](https://biblehub.com/genesis/41-14.htm): *"Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him hastily out of the dungeon: and he shaved himself, and changed his raiment, and came in **unto Pharaoh**"*
- [Exodus 7:7](https://biblehub.com/exodus/7-7.htm): *"And Moses was fourscore years old, and Aaron fourscore and three years old, when they spake **unto Pharaoh**"*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Hepta](/greek?word=epta) (Gr) - επτα
> Seven. A mystical number of Great Importance. see [2112](2112) Greek, [7](7). ([Concordance](https://biblehub.com/greek/hepta_2033.htm))

> - [Matthew 18:22](https://biblehub.com/matthew/18-22.htm): *"Jesus saith unto him, I say not unto thee, Until **seven** times: but, Until seventy times **seven**."*
> - [Revelation 1:4](https://biblehub.com/revelation/1-4.htm): *"John to the **seven** churches which are in Asia: Grace be unto you, and peace, from him which is, and which was, and which is to come; and from the **seven** Spirits which are before his throne;"*
> - [Luke 20:31](https://biblehub.com/luke/20-31.htm): *"And the third took her; and in like manner the **seven** also: and they left no children, and died."*

---

### [Damaskon](/greek?word=damaskon) (Gr) - Δαμασκὸν
Damascus. (Hebrew דמשק [Dammaseq](/keys/DMShQ)) See [444](444). *"a very ancient ([Genesis 14:15](http://biblehub.com/genesis/14-15.htm)), celebrated, flourishing city of Syria, lying in a most lovely and fertile plain at the eastern base of Antilibanus. It had a great number of Jews among its inhabitants (Josephus, b. j. 2, 20, 2 cf. 7, 8, 7). Still one of the most opulent cities of western Asia, having about 109,000 inhabitants ('in 1859 about 150,000; of these 6,000 were Jews, and 15,000 Christians')"*

Spelled Δαμασκὸν (386) in [Acts 9:2](http://biblehub.com/acts/9-2.htm) and Δαμασκῷ ([1066](1066)) in [Acts 9:2](http://biblehub.com/acts/9-3.htm).

---

### See Also:

- [17](17)
- [8](8)
