## 389 - Three Hundred Eighty-Nine
> prime. [10](10)x[10](10) + [17](17)x[17](17)

---

### [mogashem](/keys/MVGShM) - מוגשם
> Corporeal, incarnating, realized, materialized. The [29th Path](29) of [Qoph](/keys/Q). The adjective mogashem is derived from a verb גשם, [gawsham](/keys/GShM), which means "to rain violently," or from a noun spelled the same signifying, "a hard shower." Note [Key 18](18) has for part of its symbolism a shower of 18 Yods, the total they represent is 10 x 18, or [180](180). This is the number of degrees in a semicircle, and, because the sun follows the apparent path of a semicircle from east to west during the course of a day, the number [180](180) is a symbol of the "day," or incarnation period, of a personality. See [739](739).

---

### [ayawlaw shelukhaw](/keys/AILH.ShLChH) - אילה שלחה
> "a hind let loose". [Genesis 49:21](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-21.htm). The American Translation reads: "A free-running deer." This is said of the Tribe of Naphtali, corresponding to Virgo. Virgo is the Tarot is pictured by the Hermit, and the Hermit is standing at the summit to which leads the path in [Key 18](18). He is free to range, because he is altogether liberated. The path in Key 18 is what must be followed to attain liberation. It is the path of progress, made possible by incarnation.

---

### [dakar ve-nuquba](/keys/DKR.VNVQBA) - דכר ונוקבא
> "male and female" (Aramaic). *"Come and behold. When the most Holy and Ancient One, the concealed with all concealment {[Key 9](9)}, desired to be formed froth, he conformed all things under the form of male and female"* [Lesser Holy Assembly, Ch 8 Sec 218]. The process by means of which bodies are incarnated and forms marked out. Physical existence is the starting point for higher levels of awareness. In order to attain to conscious participation in higher realms of existence, the physical body must be purified and transmuted so that it may serve as an instrument for the expression of spiritual powers and as a receiving station for impressions from levels of existence above and beyond the limits of the physical plane. The practices of true occultism help us to overthrow the errors in our conscious thinking, which in turn affect our subconscious mentation which is in charge of bodily function. This is partly the work of Mars. As related to the 10 of Cups, it is the Scorpio aspect of Mars. When rightly utilized in meditation, the Scorpio force rises through the spinal cord and gives the organ of inner vision, the pineal gland, the strength to open. see [390](390).

---

### [tawfash](/keys/TPSh) - טפש
> is fat. [Psalm 119:70](http://biblehub.com/psalms/119-70.htm). *"Their heart is fat as grease."* However the Jewish translation from the Hassoretic text is thus: *"Their hearts is gross like fat."* From טפש: to be gross, be dull, stupid, foolish.

*"taphash: to be gross ... short definition: covered."* [[Strongs 2954](http://biblehub.com/hebrew/2954.htm)]

---

### [megusham](/keys/MGVShM) - מגושם
> magician, sorcerer. connected with the negative magic which some associate with the Corporeal Intelligence.

---

### [shuletawn](/keys/ShLThN) - שלתן
> Power of office, Rulership, dominion, sultan. [Daniel 4:3](http://biblehub.com/daniel/4-3.htm). see [57](57), [259](259), [186](186), [100](100), [394](394).

---

### [shawfawt](/keys/ShPT) - שפט
> judge, judgement; to judge. This is the root of the name Jeehoshphat, the Valley. [Joel 3:2, 3:12](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Joel+3%3A2,12&version=KJV;WLC). It also means the name of the father of the prophet Elisha. [1 Kings 19:19](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/19-19.htm). It evidently means Lily. This word has a solar significance. [Shin](/keys/Sh) (Fire), [Peh](/keys/P) (Mars) and [Teth](/keys/T) (Leo). Lilies are white, a solar color. see [985](985) (Latin).

---

### [shawm ha-bedolach](/keys/ShM.HBDLCh) - שם הבדלח
> *"There (is) the bdellium."* [Genesis 2:12](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-12.htm). One of the ingredients of the Land of Havilah "where there is Gold", variously taken to be a gum, precious stone or pearl. This could be the "pearl of Great price," otherwise known as the stone.

---

### [sheteph](/keys/ShTP) - שטף
> "overflowing", flood.

> - [Job 38:25](http://biblehub.com/job/38-25.htm): *"Who has divided a watercourse for the overflowing of waters, or a way for the lightning of thunder."*
> - Also in [Psalm 32:6](http://biblehub.com/psalms/32-6.htm): *"For this let every one that is chosen pray to you at an appointed time; surely even the flood of great waters shall not come near him."*

---

## Greek

---

### [Ho lithos](/greek?word=o+lithos) (Greek) - ο λιθος
> the stone. The "Everlasting Dominion" designated by שלתן, [shuletawn](/keys/ShLThN), is symbolized in [Daniel 2:34](http://biblehub.com/daniel/2-34.htm) and [2:45](http://biblehub.com/daniel/2-45.htm) as a stone. One of the results of making the Philosopher's Stone is the adept's ability to utilize the power of the [29th Path](29) ([Qoph](/keys/Q)) so as to form for himself a physical body adjusted to any physical environment. With this ability go certain other power's and all of them have to do with determining the rates of vibration which constitute the forms of physical objects. see [949](949), [53](53).

---

### See Also:

- [20](20)
- [2](2)
