## 400 - Four Hundred

> 4x4x5x5. The number of permutations (Grades of Consciousness) of the 10 sephiroth in the 4 worlds. Number of cubits of the porch of Solomon's temple and Holy of Holies.

### [Tav](/keys/Th) - ת
> *"The letter Tav is the seal of the cosmic administration because it combines the imaginative powers of subconsciousness, Daleth, with the liberating power of change, Nun."* [Simple Stories From the Heart, Rabbi Kardia]

> *"As representing a signature, Tav implies security, guaranty, pledge, and so on. A signature is what makes business instruments valid. the letter Tav therefore indicates the final seal and witness to the completion of the Great Work of liberation."* [The Tarot, Paul Case.] see [476](476).

> Tav was written in ancient Hebrew as a cross of equal arms, sometimes made like the plus sign +, and sometimes like the arthimitical symbol of multiplication X. One reflection of Christian esoteric doctrine, would have realized that Tav as the last letter of the Hebrew alphabet, might be taken as the end of the Old Testament dispensation, and would notice that the Hebrew alphabet ends with the cross [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, pp.40-41)

> The letter Tav as a cross appears on the breast of the High Priestess in [Key 2](2). The secret of the stone of the wise is also the secret of the cross which is the end, and so the fulfillment of the dispensation represented symbolically by the 22 letters of the Hebrew alphabet. see [1271](1271) (Greek).

> > *"The Kingdom [Malkuth] depends from Yesod, and is linked to Yesod by the path of Tav, and this letter stands for the Temple in the midst, as is written in Sepher Yetzirah. Thus is the letter Tav the special token of the Lord, and of His Holy Temple."* [9th Communication] see [89](89), [430](430).

> > *"He [Adam] is the MLK or King, and his power to rule is the consequence of his utter dependence ([Key 12](12)) on what supports him - which is the power at the center corresponding to the letter Tav.*

> > *"Now the body is Tav also, or the point at the lower end of the 32nd path, as you may see on the Tree, since it is only by a convention that the Sephiroth, which are really points, are represented as circles. Thus the bottom point is not only the lowermost end of path 32, but likewise the completion of paths 29 and 31. 29 is the path of the Corporeal Intelligence, 31 is the path of fire and of Ruach Elohim. Tav is the path of Saturn and of Earth. Could anything be plainer? This is the embodiment or integration of the fire of spirit through the finitizing power of Saturn. Moreover, it is written of the letter Tav that it is "the Temple of Holiness in the midst." Of everybody whether mineral, vegetable, animal or human may this be said. It is a center or focus for all the powers of Heaven and Earth."* [24th Communication]

> > *"Look at the Rota and see what [Key 21](21) says. It is really a symbol of union, and is therefore the extension numerically of [Key 6](6). Ask yourselves what has become of the man in Key 6, when that Key's full expression is represented by Key 21, and you will perhaps learn something to your advantage. Of course 21 is a representation of Binah, and the very number shows this because it reduces to Binah's number, 3; and in Key 21, if you look intently, you may see delineated in plain sight representation of the idea expressed in Hebrew as the word AIN, which is both BTN and AMK. No, we shall not tell you, for you can find out for yourselves, and if you do, you should go on from there to a great many practical applications."* [32nd Communication] see [67](67), [713](713), [61](61).

> According to Hewetius: *"For though our art is unknown, we do assert, according to experience, that this mystery is to be found; but only with the great Jehovah Saturninely placed in the center of the World [Case: Key 21, Tav, attributed to Saturn, is called the Palace of Holiness in the midst, or center]. There, within most intimately, the abyss of the spagiric artifice is disclosed; there, as in a crystalline diaphaneity, the miracle of the whole world."* [Atwood: A Suggestive Inquiry into Alchemy, p.321]

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"This character as consonant, belongs to the sibilant sound. The ancient Egyptians in consecrating it to Thoth, whose name they gave it, regarded it as the symbol of the universal mind. As grammatical sign in the Hebraic tongue, it is that of sympathy and reciprocity; joining, to the abundance of the character Daleth, to the force of resistance and protection of the character Teth, the idea of perfection and necessity of which it is the emblem. Although it does not hold a particular rank among the articles, it appears nevertheless too often at the head of words, for one not to suspect that it was used as such in one of the Egyptian dialects, where without doubt it represented the relation את; in the same manner that the character Peh represented the relaton פא, פה or פי."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.465-466]

### [Ani yesad be-Zion, ehben](/keys/HNNI.ISD.BTzIVN.ABN) - הנני יסד בציון אבן
> *Behold, I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone* - [Isaiah 28:16](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/28-16.htm).

### [kashawf](/keys/KShP) - כשף
> magician. Also:

> - כשף magic, sorcery;
> - כשף to practice magic, mutter incantations, to enchant bewitch, charm.

> In [Jeremiah 27:9](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/27-9.htm) this word is used in the plural. Magic is a two-edge sword-the magician practices it wisely; the sorcerer's incantations bewitch. As a verb: to pay close attention, to listen; to speak softly, to use magic. see (Case: Notes on number 2, p.11) [4](4), [40](40), [89](89), [44](44).

### [maskil](/keys/MShKIL) - משכיל
> instruction, erudition; wise person. A wise, prudent skilful person. Title of Yesod, as a noun, applied by Qabbalist to Yesod. "Intelligent, wise" in [Proverbs 10:5](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/10-5.htm) *"He who works in summer is a wise man; but he who sleeps in harvest is a son that causes shame."* see [80](80), [350](350), [355](355), [979](979).

### [peshutah](/keys/PShVTH) - פשוטה
> Literal sense of the text of the scripture. The "outer garment" of the law. From פשוט, [peshut](/keys/PShVT), straight, plain; simple, flat, level; the plain sense.

### [shenaim](/keys/ShNIM) - שנים
> years.

### [shenaim](/keys/ShNIM) - שנים
> two, double. Illumination results from the overcoming or balancing all the pairs of opposites. See [Key 2](2), the Uniting Intelligence.

### [sepherin](/keys/SPRIN) - ספרין
> (the) books [Daniel 7:10](http://biblehub.com/daniel/7-10.htm). "The Judgement was set, and the books were opened." The books are those inner books of life which are opened during the process of illumination. see [904](904), [704](704).

### [sack](/keys/ShQ) - שק
> Sackcloth, bag, sack. Refers to the heart, or bloodsack. see [444](444).

### [shoal](/keys/ShOL) - שעל 
> handful; the hollow of the hand, the palm, depth of the sea. Grasp or comprehension is attributed to Kaph, and this leads one to knowledge of the great sea, Binah. see [Key 10](10), #[67](67).

### [neshaim](/keys/NShIM) - נשים
> wives. A reference to the path of Tav, which connects the king (Tiphareth) to the bride (Malkuth). [Genesis 6:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/6-2.htm): *"That the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair; and they took them wives all of which they chose."* [Mark 12:25](http://biblehub.com/mark/12-25.htm): *"For when they shall rise form the dead, they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels which are in heaven."* see [713](713).

### [shemayin](/keys/ShMIN) - שמין
> heavens, heaven. In [Daniel 4:11](http://biblehub.com/daniel/4-11.htm) *"The tree grew, and was strong, and the height thereof reached unto heaven, and the sight thereof to the end of all the earth."* And in [Daniel 7:2](http://biblehub.com/daniel/4-11.htm) *"Daniel spoke and said, 'I saw in my vision by night, and behold, the four winds of heaven stirred up the great sea."* see [390](390), [395](395), [687](687), [745](745), [488](488).

### [Ashel](/keys/OShL) - עשל
> 47th name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the fifth quinance (21°-25°) of Pisces. see [415](415).

### [qash](/keys/QSh) - קש
> straw, "stubble", chaff. [Exodus 15:7](http://biblehub.com/exodus/15-7.htm) *"In the greatness of your majesty, you threw down those who opposed you. you unleashed your burning anger; it consumed them like stubble."*

### [ki-eyrumim](/keys/KI.OIRMIM) - כי עירמים
> those nudes. [Genesis 3:7](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-7.htm): *"Then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they realized that they were naked; so they sewed fig leaves together and made coverings for themselves."*

> 1. Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"כי עירמים that-void-of-light Refer to first verse of this chapter. It is also way the same root עור, containing the idea of ardor, of a vehement fire, literally as well as figuratively. Formed from the root אור, which presents the idea of luminous corporeity, it becomes its absolute opposite. The one is a tranquil action; the other, a turbulent passion: here, it is an harmonious movement; there it is a blind, disordered movement. It the above example, the sign of manifestation Yod, has replaced the sign of the mystery of nature, and it this way Moses has wished to show that this terrible mystery was unveiled to the eyes of the universal man, Adam. I can go no further in my explanation: the earnest reader must investigate for himself, the force and the concatenation of the Hebrew expressions; I have furnished with all the means. The word [xxx], by which the Samaritan translator has rendered עירמים, belongs to the root עפ, the image of darkness, united to the root פש, which develops all ideas of inflation, of vacuity, of vanity. The word עפם, which is formed from it, signifies an enormous excavation, and also a savage, voracious animal."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp. 101-102]

> 2. F.J. Mayers adds: *"... the word ערום, [Arum](/keys/ORVM), subtle, #[316](316) which was applied to [Nahash](/keys/NChSh), [358](358), is exactly the same word as that which is translated 'naked' when applied to Adam and Aisha, [306](306), when their eyes, Adam and his Aisha became 'aware that their inward light was extinct'. There were 'naked' indeed, but it was something much more important than nakedness of body that was in question, when man first entered the state of life in physical bodies, he would have no more idea of clothes than any other animal, for as far as his physical body in concerned he is an animal. It was the nakedness of this 'human' qualities that he became aware of. He had been given faculties for the development of thought, reason and will, yet immediately he acts on this own initiative he discovers that he has absolutely nothing in himself to replace the omniscient wisdom of Elohim, which had hitherto guided al his activities. He acted on his own 'impulse' and found that it was 'blind' and 'without intelligence'. As a 'man' he was at the 'zero' point of human development. He had qualities far higher than any possessed by the animal world, but he had everything to learn in the use of them. As a man he was far more helpless than the animals. 'Instinct' provided them with everything they needed. Man, in order to be man, had to replace instinct by thought and reason, and he was a 'baby' in knowledge. An animal knows all it needs to know from the moment it is born. Man has to learn by long and often painful experience; 'wisdom' is always learnt through suffering."* [The Unknown God, p.187](http://www.organelle.org/as/aschap26.htm)

> 3. The Zohar [I.53A] says: *"When Adam sinned, God took from him the armor of the bright and holy letters with which he had been encompassed, and then he and his wife were afraid, perceiving that they had be stripped; so it says and they know that they were naked. At first they had been invested with those glorious crowns which gave them protection and exemption form death. When they sinned, they were stripped of them, and then they know that death was calling them, that they had been deprived of their exemption, and that they had brought death on themselves and on all the world."* (p.168)

> 4. Swedenborg adds: *"By 'knowing that they were naked' is signified their knowing and acknowledging themselves to be no longer in innocence as before. They are called 'naked' because left to their own; for they who are left to their own, that is, to themselves, have no longer anything of intelligence and wisdom, or of faith, and consequently are 'naked' as to truth and good, and are therefore in evil."* [Arcana Coelestia, pp.92-93]

> 5. Gaskell suggest that nakedness is its lower aspect is *"A symbol of a state of ignorance, a lack of ideas and opinions (clothes). As all external states have analogous reference to internal states, this condition is emblematic of an empty state of soul."* [Dictionary of Scriptures and Myths, p.523]

> 6. Kohlenberger spells this word כי עירמם [KI OIRMM](/keys/KI.OIRMM) [the naked ones] in the Interlinear Bible.

## Greek

### [Krios](/greek?word=krios) (Gr) - κριός
> Ram (sign of Aries). Paul case says the number of the Pythagorean letter Upsilon is also the number of the name of the first sign of the zodiac, Aries or Krios. *"Every beginner in astrology knows that the conventional sign of astrological symbol for the sign is exactly that same as the letter Upsilon in the greek Alphabet. This correspondence, moreover, leads to much else, because the ram or Aries, is the lamb of Gnostic christianity; and we shall find, later on, that the Hebrew interpretation of this ogdoad of initials gives us a plain intimation that the founder of the Rosicrucian order [C.R.C.] is none other than this same lamb, and is even named 'lamb' by the Hebrew equivalent to one arrangement of his initials [KR]."* see [220](220)

> *... readers familiar with the Pythagorean doctrines would have been struck by the correspondence for the Romans called Upsilon the 'letter of Pythagoras" who is said to have taught that it represented by its two horns the different paths of virtue and vice, the right branch leading to the former and the left to the latter. Thus this letter was the symbol of the way of life, and here we may remind ourselves that God the son, or Jesus Christ, who is also represented by the letter Upsilon, is reported to have said: "I am the way.:" Finally, alchemist also used the letter to designate their great secret. One text says: "This heavenly dew and its power contained in everything. It is treated by the world with contempt and reject by it. As it grows, it becomes divided into two branches, white and red, both springing from one root "Y". The text from which this is quoted [Secret Symbols] shows the Pythagorean Y, or Upsilon, with the alchemical symbol for Sulphur above the left-hand branch of the letter, and the symbol for Mercury above the other branch."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p.39-40]

### [Oinos](/greek?word=oinos) (Gr) - οἶνος
> Wine (symbol of Life). "William Jennings Bryan and certain theosophists to the contrary notwithstanding, the New Testament meaning of this word is fermented wine, and not unfermented grape-juice. All doubt as to this is removed by the passage in [Ephesians 5:18](http://biblehub.com/ephesians/5-18.htm), 'be not drunk with wine.' In the Greek original, the word is precisely the same as the one cited in recording the miracle of changing water into wine. It is the same in meaning as the Hebrew יין, [yahyin](/keys/IIN), derived from a root meaning 'to effervesce' [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p.40]

### [Oksos](/greek?word=oksos) (Gr) - όξος
> Vinegar (symbol of death).The vinegar given to Jesus on a "reed" while on the cross. see [8](8).

### [kokkos](/greek?word=kokkos) (Gr) - κόκκος
> a kernel, grain, seed. Spelled in [Matthew 17:20](http://biblehub.com/matthew/17-20.htm): *"And He [Jesus] says to them [the disciples], 'on account of your little faith, [you were not able to cast out the demon], for indeed I say to you, if you have faith, as a grain of mustard, you might say to this mountain, remove there from here, and it would remove; and nothing would be impossible to you."* see [460](460) (Greek), [1746](1746), [2220](2220), [2276](2276).

### [upsilon](/greek?word=u) (Gr) - Υ
> *"The total, 400, is the number of the Greek letter Upsilon, closely resembling in form to our letter Y; and this letter is the initial of the noun huios, meaning 'son.' In Gnostic Christianity, therefore, it was a familiar symbol of the second Person of the Trinity, god the Son, viz. Jesus Christ. Erudite readers familiar with the Pythagorean doctrines would have been struck by this correspondence, for the Romans called Upsilon the 'Letter of Pythagoras,' who is said to have taught that it represented by its two horns the two different paths of virtue and vice, the riht branch leading to the former, and the left branch to the latter. Thus, this letter was the symbol of the Way of Life, and here we may remind ourselves that God the Son, or Jesus Christ, who is also represented by the letter Upsilon, is reported to have said: 'I am the Way.' Finally, alchemists also used this letter to designate their great secret. One text says: 'This heavenly dew and its power is contained in everything. i tis treated by the world with contempt and rejected by it. As it grows, it becomes divided into two branches, white and red, both springing from one root -- Y."* [True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p. 39-40]