## 409 - Four Hundred Nine
> (prime)

---

### [Teth](/keys/TTh) - טת
> Serpent. Letter name Teth. The ancient form of the letter Teth was a crude picture of a tally, in the form of a circle (suggesting the serpent holding its tail in its mouth) enclosing a cross, which was the original form of the letter Tav. This is a mathematical symbol of IHVH because every circle equals 22 and every cross 4. The cross, as Tav is a symbol of the Tree of Life, and the Circle is a symbol of the "Power of the Letters." see [380](380), [358](358), [1502](1502), [400](400), [419](419).

---

###  [echath](/keys/AChTh) - אחת
> She. the feminine form of the word for "One" ([echad](/keys/AChD), [13](13)). The Life-breath, as the divine darkness represented by en, the no-thing, seems to be more feminine that masculine.

---

###  [qeshet](/keys/QShT) - קשט
> bow, bow of promise. Symbol of Sagittarius and the Great Work. see [800](800).

---

### [ve-ehben ha-soham](/keys/VABN.HShHM) - ואבן השהם
> "And the onyx stone" [Genesis 2:12](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-2.htm). This stone is linked to Leo, connect with טת [Teth](/keys/TTh), with Venus and the "nail" (Vav, Key 5). see [345](345).

---

### [abatha](/keys/ABHThA) - אבהתא
> patriarchs. In I.R.Q. 1003 refers to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, the "fathers" of Israel.

---

### [aboth](/keys/ABVTh) - אבות
> fathers.

---

### [ha-qadosh](/keys/HQDSh) - הקדש
> the holy ones. The 'serpents' who are androgynous, are the fathers and mothers. see [1010](1010).

---

### [qedasha](/keys/QDShH) - קדשה
> temple prostitute, harlot. (Hebrew Lexicon). This word has not occurred in our gematria. I include it speculatively. (G.J.) suggest the improper use of the one life-force as "she". The serpent activates the Mars center, without rising further, and thus the life-breath is prostituted in a fixed pattern.

> *** [beginning of text missing] ... "One is she, the breath of the creative powers of lives..." [Sepher Yetzirah, 118]. it is as if the life-breath, as the divine darkness represented by en, AIN, the no-thing, seems to be more feminine than masculine. But when it is concentrated into the simple point, this Point takes on a semblance of positive masculinity. Thus the path of Aleph stands for something in which both feminine and masculine potencies are united-into the androgyne fool (Key 0).

---

### [bidgat](/keys/BDGTh) - בדגת
In fish. [Genesis 1:26](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-26.htm): *"And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth"*

This gematria suggests that "fish of the sea" is also a reference to human sperm, which establishes the rule of patriarchs, [abatha](/keys/ABHThA), and fathers, [aboth](/keys/ABVTh).

The Tarot key sequence suggests the withdrawal of personal interference from the field of imagination, thus allowing the world to take over the cosmic dance.

---

### See Also:

- [49](49)
- [13](13)
- [4](4)
- [BibleWheel: 409](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=409)
