## 410 - Four Hundred Ten
> (2x5x41)

---

### [shema](/keys/ShMO) - שמע
> hear, sound. Part of the confession of the unity of God. "Hear O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is One." see [373](373), [739](739), [466](466), [273](273).

> ShMO shawmah to hear; to listen, give heed; to obey; to understand; to infer, deduce. ShMO sound, sonority.

---

### [shemo](/keys/ShMO) - שמע
> report, fame See the fame of the brotherhood or Fama Faternitatis; meaning, sense; hearing capacity; "he heareth". see [1291](1291) (Greek) and [Deuteronomy 6:4](http://biblehub.com//.htm).

---

### [yath](/keys/ITh) - ית
> Chaldee sign for an objective case.

---

### [Mishkan](/keys/MShKN) - משכן
> tabernacle.

---

### [qadesh](/keys/QDVSh) - קדוש
> Holy, sacred, Sanctifying [Isaiah 7:3](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/7-3.htm). Root name of the 3rd path of the Binah. qadesh is an adjective whose root means "to make pure, to set apart, to consecrate". see [756](756). Sanctification is a result of the reorganization of bodies in sleep (Qoph). This is accomplished through desire, embodied in a new creative image (Daleth). One follows the instruction of the inner voice and is guided through the changes, the result is a resurrection into a sanctified body of light through the power of Spiritual Fire (Shin). see [404](404).

---

### [Jehoshaphat, Yehoshaphat](/keys/IHVShPT) - יהושפט
> "God has judged." A valley which is the scene for the final judgement. [Joel 3:2](http://biblehub.com/joel/3-2.htm) *"I will also gather all nations, and will bring them down into the valley of Jehoshaphat, and will plead with them there for my people and for my heritage Israel, whom they have scattered among the nations, and parted my land."*

> The alchemical first matter "blooms like a lily standing in the valley of Jehoshaphat" [Secret Symbols]. This word has a definite solar significance. Its root is ShPTh. The first letter is attributed by Qabalist to fire, the second to the fiery planet Mars, and the third to the fiery solar sign Leo." [Great Work-12 p.1] Note also that VHV = 21 = mystic name of 3 letters connected with AHIH (the father) and Tiphareth (the son). see 1210, 478 (Latin), 1812 (Greek).

---

### [metzareph](/keys/MTzRP) - מצרף
> purifying; crucible, melting-pot. Part of the title of a famous qabalistic alchemical treatise. see [711](711). Before one has the "ears to hear" the sacred teaching, one must have purified the interior hearing center, represented by Venus. see [Key 3](3), & [5](5).

---

### [deror](/keys/DRVR) - דרור
> Flowing, running freely; freedom, liberty; swallow (bird). suggest the action of the spiritual fire, symbolized by Shin.

---

### [mishekawn](/keys/MShKN) - משכן
> tabernacle; dwelling-place, habitation. the human body. "The kingdom of spirit is embodied in my flesh." [Pattern on the trestleboard]. see [446](446), [889](889).

---

### [shawqey](/keys/ShQI) - שקי
> butter.

---

### [Ararat](/keys/ARRT) - אררט
> The mountain where the ark of Noah came to rest. In [Genesis 8:4](http://biblehub.com/genesis/8-4.htm): *"And in the seventh month, on the 17th day of the month, the ark rested upon the mountains of Ararat."*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"ARRTh of Ararat... here is a word which would afford a vast subject for commentary... all peoples who have preserved the memory of the deluge, and nearly all have preserved it, have not failed to relate the name of the alleged mountain upon which rested the mysterious Thebah [ark], which bore within it the hope of nature and the seed of a new existence. Nicholas of Dams, cited by Joesephus, called it mount Barris, a name which is not very unlike that Syraris or Sypara, which Berosus gave to that city of the sun, in which an Assyrian monarch deposited the archives of the world when he know that the catastrophe of the flood was imminent. It is well known that the Greeks called ? ε ?, the luminous mountain, the place of Parnassus where Deucalion rested; but perhaps it is not generally known that the Americans had also a celebrated mountain, upon which they declared that the remnants of mankind had taken refuge, and whose name they consecrated by the erection of a temple dedicated to the sun. The name was Olamgi. It would certainly be very easy for me to prove that these names... all have a connection with the course of light...*

> *This world [ARRTh] is composed of the two roots AVR-RTh: the first AVR, in understood: it is light and al ideas which are related to it. The second, RTh, formed of the signs of movement proper and of resistance, characterizes a course accompanied, inflected or directed by anything whatsoever. Thence, the Chaldaic verb RHVTh, to concur with a thing, to follow it to its source, to direct it; as light or water, for example; thence, the Hebraic word RHITh, a channel, a conduit, a promenade; thence the Syraic [word] an inflection, a reflection, etc.*

> *After this explanation one can feel that the word ARRTh, does not signify the mount of malediction or of terror, as has been believed without examination; but indeed that of the reflected course of light; which is very different. Besides, it is well to know that the Samaritan translator, the most ancient interpreter of Moses, has not rendered the word ARRTh, by a simple a proper name of the mount, but Chaladic and Samaritan words SDNA, axis, wheel, orbit; and RVB or RIB, effluence, emanation: so that it offers a translation quite exact of the sense that I have given to the word ARRTh: that is to say, instead of signifying simply the reflected course of light, it signifies the orbit of luminous effluence."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.226-227]

---

### [Sheleph](/keys/ShLP) - שלף
Sheleph. "A Drawing Forth." Son of [Joktan](/keys/IQTN). Grandson of [Eber](/keys/OBR). see [817](817). [Genesis 10:26](https://biblehub.com/genesis/10-26.htm): *"And Joktan begat Almodad, **and Sheleph**, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah"*

---

### See Also:

- [41](41)
- [5](5)
- [Bible Wheel: 410](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=410)


