## 411 - Four Hundred Eleven
> (3x137)

---

### [hekel or haikal rawtzon](/keys/HIKL.RTzVN) - 
> Palace of delight, will, grace, desire. Briatic (heavenly) mansion corresponding to Tiphareth, i.e. the creative place of the central Ego. RTzVN means will, desire, wish, goodwill, favor, grace, delight. see [1061](1061), [346](346), [65](65).

---

### [mishaykawna](/keys/MShKNA) - 
> habitaculum, [MShKN] habitation, dwelling, tabernacle. [Ezekiel 25:4](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"Behold, therefore I will deliver thee to the men of the east for a possession, and they shall set their palaces in thee, and make their dwelling in thee: they shall eat thy fruit, and they shall drink thy milk."* [Also: MShKN to give a pledge, to take a pledge, seize, levy, (for debt). Given in Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.43]

---

### [seder zaymanim](/keys/SDR.ZMNIM) - 
> order of times (ordo seclorum on the great seal). ZMN = plan, device; appointed time, title; temple (gram.); ZMN = prepare, to invite, to say grace after meals in company]. see [971](971).

> Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.43] gives: ordo temporum, and says they are Tiphareth, with respect to days and Malkuth with respect of night; in which are contained or understood all times of nature.

---

### [Elisha](/keys/ALIShO) - 
> "God of Supplication"; "God is Salvation." The successor and perpetuator of Elijah's work, by whom he was ordained and anointed to this end. [2 Kings 2:12](http://biblehub.com/2_kings/2-12.htm): *"And Elisha saw it [Elijah taken up by a whirlwind into heaven], and he cried, my father, my father, the chariot of Israel, and the horsemen thereof. And he saw him no more: and he took hold of his own clothes, and rent them into two pieces."*

---

### [tohu](/keys/ThHV) - 
> Desolation, "without form." The formless is the "dwelling-place" of the originating principle. [Jeremiah 31:37](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/31-37.htm) refers to MVSI-ADTz as being "searched out beneath." Thus ThHV is the formless foundation which is below. See [Genesis 1:1,2](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Genesis+1%3A1-2&version=AKJV;WLC). By Tarot ThHV = 21 + 4 + 5 = 30 > 3 = Key 2. Daleth = DLTh = 434: B:H:V: (bohu, "without form") (BITh; HH; VV) = 434. ThHV in plentitude = 406 + 10 + 12 = 428 (BTh + HH + VV) = "a precious stone, the gift"; "scintillating flames" (chashmalim); "And IHVH Elohim formed" [man]; "out of darkness"; in the midst. see 430, 291, 1152. Mathers; "expresses first root of all good" [Sepher Sephiroth, p.43]

---

### [Shelumiel](/keys/ShLMIAL) - 
> "Peace of God." [Numbers 1:6](http://biblehub.com/numbers/1-6.htm): *"Of Simeon [Gemini, fixation, 466]; Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai"* ["my rock is the almighty", 620]. Angelic guard of the 3rd heaven (Pike Hekeloth). [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels p.272] see. [314](314), [296](296).

---

### [ain + apar](/keys/AIN.OPR) - 
> no-thing plus dust. The no-thing is the primal darkness, the latent state of the supernal triad before manifestation, or living mind. Out of the dust (i.e. particles of solar radiance) of the ground (physical plane) was the essence of humanity (Adam) created by IHVH-Elohim. see [350](350), [61](61).

---

### [Tebeth](/keys/ThBTh) - 
> Tevet, the 4th Hebrew month, December-January, corresponding roughly to the period when the sun is in Capricorn. [Esther 2:16](http://biblehub.com/esther/2-16.htm): *"She was taken to King Xerxes in the royal residence in the tenth month [i.e. of the western calender], the month of Tebeth, in the seventh year of his reign."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [diathekehn halos](/greek?word=diathhkhn.alos) (Gr) - διαθήκην ἁλός
> "A covenant of salt". Septuagint translation of ברית מלח, [berith melakh](/keys/BRITh.MLCh) (#[690](690)) in [2 Chronicles 13:5](http://biblehub.com/2_chronicles/13-5.htm): *"Do you know that the Lord God of Israel has given the kingdom of Israel to David and his descendants forever, by a covenant of salt?"* Note that salt is the third alchemical principle, denoting embodiment. It is attributed to Binah, sphere of Saturn. see [361](361) (Gr), [60](60) (Greek), [690](690).

---

### See Also:

- [6](6)
