## 415 - Four Hundred Fifteen
5x83.

### [shemoah](/keys/ShMOH) - שמעה
> hearing. The function assigned to Vav, the nail of intuition. see [12](12), [32](32), [53](53), [158](158), [177](177), [508](508).

### [moshah](/keys/MOShH) - מעשה
> work, action, employment, the function assigned to Lamed, the ox-goad. see [74](74).

### [ha-qodesh](/keys/HQDVSh) - הקדוש
> the holy one; i.e. Kether, the ancient of days. see [410](410). This is the spelling given in the PFC 32 Paths of Wisdom lesson 3 and was given as "the Sanctifying" and attributed to the 3rd Path of Binah. From a root meaning: to make pure, to set apart, to consecrate. see [765](765). Note: See [450](450) for alternate spelling.

### [memayshala](/keys/MMShLH) - ממשלה
> dominion, rule, reign. The function attributed to Tav, the mark or signature. Also: government. see [400](400), [406](406).

### [qadisha](/keys/QDIShA) - קדישא
> holy. From מזלא קדישא, [mezla qadisha](/keys/MZLA QDIShA), the holy influence, from Kether [I.Z.Q: 673] *"What is to be understood by כח יהוה, [kach Jehovah](/keys/KCh.IHVH), the power of Tetragrammaton? This is מזלא קדישא, mezla qadisha, the holy influence, called, even the concealed with all concealments. And from the influence that strength and the light depend."* see [493](493), [54](54), [620](620).

### [qishoot](/keys/QShVT) - קשוט
> The forms of truth, the light of truth. [I.Z.Q. 359] (That highest light) *"Who is hidden and not manifested, through those vestments of ornament which are the vestments of truth, קשוט, [qeshot](/keys/QShVT), the forms of truth, the light of truth."*

> also: dress, toilet; ornament, cosmetic.

### [awchoth](/keys/AChVTh) - אחות
> sister; female relation; companion, mate. i.e. Gimel, Key [2](2). see [73](73).

### [abarah dabar](/keys/ABRAH.DBR) - אבראה דבר
> The voice of the chief seer.

### [Asaliah](/keys/OShLIH) - עשליה
> "Just God, who indicates truth". [47th Shemhamphorash](http://guideangel.com/47.html), Angel SI MÉ, Venus. 231-235. May 5, July 16, September 26, December 7, February [?11? or ?14?]. 3:30-3:40 PM. [Psalm 104:24](http://biblehub.com/psalms/104-24.htm): *"O Lord, how manifold are thy works. In wisdom has thou made them all: the earth is full of thy riches."*

> To praise God and to lift ourselves toward him when he sends us illumination. Rules justice and makes known the truth in lawsuits; influences men of probity, and those who raise their spirit to the contemplation of things divine. Persons born: endowed with an agreeable character, is fond of acquiring secrets of illumination. see [400](400).