## 418 - Four Hundred Eighteen
> (2x11x19)

### [Letter name Cheth](/keys/ChITh) - חית
> hedge, field, fence. The Self-limitation of the Life-power.

> *"The power of Scorpio, raised by the meditation which unveils Truth, brings about the consciousness that personality is the vehicle, or Chariot, which is also the lodge, and the house, temple, or palace of influence.*

> *"The car is also a cube, made of stone, that is, אבן, the verbal symbol of the union Chokmah and Tiphareth; that is, of 2 and 6, which is shown again in יהוה. But 2 and 6 add to 8, and this is the value of Cheth. Yet the name חית adds to 418, and the reduction of this is 13, leading finally to 4, or Daleth. On this we have given you much. Daleth is the path of union of אב and אימא. Without that union, Binah is אמא, dark and sterile; but after that union she is אימא, and brings forth בן, the Son."* [13th Communication] see [148](148), [187](187), [1081](1081), [67](67), [134](134) (Latin).

> Now the alchemists say the Magnum Opus is "woman's work," and even our English speech uses the words "travail" and "labor" for birth. Many, coming this far, have strayed into the error that the Work has to do with genetics. It is not be eugenics that the "beyond man" comes. It is by a second birth within the heart.

### [Yethech](/keys/IThCh) - יתח
> to beat, to strike. *"You will have more difficulty with the relation between the letter-name and the ideas of punishment, sin-offering, and the implication of the verb meaning to beat, to strike. The solution of this problem is in the occult teaching that all separate existence is like a punishment in which circumstance after circumstance strikes painful blows. But this painful process results ultimately in union with the originating principle (Charioteer), and with that union comes knowledge that he has endured all the pain that we have suffered; that he had own all our sorrows; that he has been the witness of all our failures to hit the mark; and that he not only assumes all this burden of sorrow and seeming failure, but is able, when the great work is finished, to transmute it all into joy. One who is still living on the sense of separateness finds no satisfactory answer to the questions 'Why do I suffer? Why do I fall short? Why am I subjected to the blows of adversity?' But one who has overcome separateness and lives in union with the one life never asks these questions for he neither suffers, falls short, nor receives the buffets of adverse circumstance. Yet such a one knows the answer to questioning the delusion of separateness-he gives this answer freely: 'All this comes because of this delusion of separateness. Unite thy self with the one and thy suffering shall cease.' In every age this is the unvarying answer. It is the only one that can be given. It is the only one that is true. Many reject it, and in the rejection continues suffering until pain and failure have taught them the great lesson of utter receptivity, self-sacrifice."* [Gematria of the Letter-names]

### [eth-gid](/keys/ATh-GID) - את־גיד
> With sinew, with tendon, with penis. את is the grammatical sign in the accusative. As a preposition it means "with". In Qabalistic usage it means "essence". גיד means "a nerve, sinew, tendon, penis. This is the sinew which shrank at the time of Jacob's encounter with the angel. [Those who see nothing but debased phallisism in the Old Testament should know that the wise, though admitting their facts, intimated their interpretation was astray.] An esoteric reference to the diversion of nerve-currents of the Mars-force, from the lower to the higher centers. see [17](17).

### [khattath](/keys/ChTATh) - חטאת
> atonement, a miss, misstep, slip of the foot, sin, sin-offering, punishment. Hence calamity, misfortune. Compare Emerson's Crime and Punishment grow on the same stem. The same word means both "sin" and the sacrifice which atones for it. Derived from a verb חטא meaning "to miss the target, to sin". Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.340] gives: חטאת chattah. peccatum, and says that the masculine form of the word, חטא is the old serpent [that tempted Eve in Genesis], but חטאת is the impious woman, Lilith.

### [Beth Heh](/keys/BITh.HA) - בית־הא
> House of Heh, House of the Window.

### [yechata](/keys/IChTh) - יחת
> union. The proper name Jahath. [1 Chronicles 6:20](http://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/6-20.htm).

### [IHVH ve-Yeheshoa](/keys/IHVH.VIShVO) - יהוה וישוע
> Tetragrammaton and Jesus. This combination expresses the idea "I and the Father are One." 418 reduces to [13](13) or AChD, unity.

### [Issac](/keys/IShChQ) - ישחק
> Isaac. A variant spelling used in [Psalm 105](http://biblehub.com/psalms/105-9.htm): *"Which covenant He made with Abraham, and his oath unto Isaac,"* [Jeremiah 33:26](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/33-26.htm): *"then will not take any of his seed to be rulers over the seed of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob..."* And [Amos 7:9](http://biblehub.com/amos/7-9.htm): *"And the high places of Isaac shall be desolate."*

### [notzer chesed](/keys/NTzR.ChSD) - נצר חסד
> keeping mercy. [Exodus 34:7](http://biblehub.com/exodus/34-7.htm). Watchman or preserver of Mercy - servans misericordium. see [72](72), [412](412).

### [Tav-Vav](/keys/ThV-VV) - תו־וו
> Letter-name of Tav spelled in full. Cross (Tav) and (Vav). The function of [Key 21](21) continued by [Key 5](5), the intuitive teacher. The path of Vav flows from Chokmah into Chesed, thus "keeping mercy". Wisdom or the life-force is the "watchman." see [867](867), [95](95), [319](319), [406](406).

## Greek

### [meros](/greek?word=mhros) (Gr) - μηρὸς
> thigh. A euphemism for phallus in the [Apocalypse 19:16](http://biblehub.com/revelation/19-16.htm). Qabalistic ideas associated with Netzach ([148](148)) having to do with the activity of the generative and reproductive powers of the One Life. see Yarak ([710](710)).

### See Also:

- [13](13)
- [4](4)
