## 423 - Four Hundred Twenty-Three
> (9x47)

---

### [etzem ha-briah](/keys/OTzM.HBRIAH) - עצם הבריאה
> essence of creation, creative force. Refers to [Heh](/keys/H), the [15th Path](15). Signifies the essential nature of the paternal force, which is concentrated primarily in Kether, and then becomes the radiant life force in the Chokmah. The "essence of glory" is really the No-Thing which is the most abstract conception our minds can form concerning the nature of the ONE BEING which is the Rootless Root of all manifestation. This No-Thing is what finds expression as appearance (the eye), as the Three Supernals (the triangle), and as the radiant energy which is the substance of all things, and, at the same time, the gravitation or weight which holds together the world of name and form (the glory). Another arrangement may be read as HIH BRA or HIH, Hawyaw, "to be" and BRA, Beraw, "to create." The inner meaning here is that the essential characteristic of being is creativeness. see [203](203), [20](20).

---

### [Arika Danpin](/keys/AVRKA.DANPIN) - אורכא דאנפין
> Vast Countenance. A title of Kether, also called "Ancient of Days" and Ancient of the Ancient Ones." Represented in the Qabalah by a man's bearded face turned so as to show the left eye only, like the Emperor. [Note that under [422](422) the spelling of this name differs. The letter Daleth is here prefixed to ANPIN. In the Hebrew dictionary Daleth (Aramaic) prefixed has the meaning "of, which". the emperor faces North] see [426](426), [173](173).

---

### [tob attah](/keys/TVB-AThH) - טוב־אתה
> "thou art good" [Psalm 119:68](http://biblehub.com/psalms/119-68.htm): *"Thou art good, and does good; teach me thy statutes."*

---

### [tekheawh](/keys/ThChIH) - תחיה
> revival, resurrection. From the Hebrew dictionary "resurrection of the dead" תחיה המתים.. The "essence of creation" revives and resurrects. see [818](818), [1313](1313),

---

### [aoth hia](/keys/AVTh.HIA) - אות היא
> the feminine sign. Literal symbol of she; thus "sign she". [K.D.L.C.K. p.66] "And shekinah is called AVTh HIA the feminine sign." Shekinah is the divine presence assigned to Binah. see [67](67), [419](419).

> *"...The 20 pillars (of the court of the tabernacle) thereof and their 30 sockets shall be of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver. (11) And likewise for the north side in length their shall be hangings of 100 cubits long and 20 pillars and their sockets of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets in silver..."* Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.420] refers to this phrase in a long discussion of יה, [Jah](/keys/IH), and says that they join the mystery of Jah.

---

### [eth ahiv](/keys/ATh-AHIV) - את־אהיו
His brother. [Genesis 4:2](https://biblehub.com/genesis/4-2.htm): *"And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground."*

---

### [tichyeh](/keys/ThChIH) - תחיה
You shall live. [Genesis 27:40](https://biblehub.com/genesis/27-40.htm): *"And by thy sword **shalt thou live,** and shalt serve thy brother; and it shall come to pass when thou shalt have the dominion, that thou shalt break his yoke from off thy neck."*

---

### [hachiti](/keys/HChThI) - החתי
Hittites. [Genesis 15:20](https://biblehub.com/genesis/15-1.htm): [to your descendendants I give the land of] *"And the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Rephaims"*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [erhmos](/greek?word=erhmos) (Gr) - ἔρημος
> Wilderness. Lonely, lone, desert (places). Of persons; lone, solitary, desolate, destitute, helpless. A solitude, desert, wilderness. ([Concordance](https://biblehub.com/greek/ere_mos_2048.htm))

- [Matthew 23:38](https://biblehub.com/text/matthew/23-38.htm): *"Behold, your house is left unto you **desolate**."*
- [Acts 8:26](https://biblehub.com/text/acts/8-26.htm): *"And the angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying, Arise, and go toward the south unto the way that goeth down from Jerusalem unto Gaza, which is **desert**."*
- [Mark 6:35](https://biblehub.com/text/mark/6-35.htm): *"And when the day was now far spent, his disciples came unto him, and said, This is a **desert** place, and now the time is far passed:"*
- [Luke 13:35](https://biblehub.com/text/luke/13-35.htm): *"Behold, your house is left unto you **desolate**: and verily I say unto you, Ye shall not see me, until the time come when ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord."*

---

### See Also:

- [9](9)
- [Bible Wheel: 423](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=423)

