## 428 - Four Hundred Twenty-Eight
> (4x107)

### [Chasmalim](/keys/ChShMLIM) - חשמלים
> Merciful or Beneficient Ones. Scintillating Flames. Choir of Angels associated with Chesed, and thus particularly with its expression in Yetzirah. see [378](378), [282](282).

> Order of angels equated with the Dominations, ranked with the Cherubim and Seraphim, headed by Chashmal or Tzadquiel. In the Qabalah the Chasmalim belong to the Yetziratic world, the world of foundation (or formation), the abode of the angels presided over by the angel Metatron [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.???] see [375](375).

### [aben khan ha shakhud](/keys/ABN.ChN.HShChD) - אבן חן השחד
> A gift is a precious stone. A precious stone, the Gift (in the eyes of him that hath it; Whatsoever he turneth, he prospers. [Proverbs 17:8](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/17-8.htm).

> Also: *"The gift, the stone of the secret wisdom (Qabalah)."* These quotes tie in with Chesed, Mercy, beneficence, as the source of eternal, unending supply. This supply is rooted in "recovery" or remembering of true place in the scheme of things. It is the gift of the sacred wisdom, the gift of unending, eternal riches and the fulfillment of every need. The secret wisdom is based on Man's conscious union with the ONE, which is the renovating or renewing stone, which is engraved with a new name, and which makes all things new (ChDSh). see [111](111), [312](312), [271](271) (ROA), [53](53).

### [hidoth](/keys/ChIDVTh) - חידות
> hard questions. [1 Kings 10:1](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/10-1.htm): *"and when the Queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon concerning the name of the Lord, she came to prove him with hard questions."* The Queen of Sheba (372) is connected with Venus and the 7 alchemical metals; Solomon is linked to the Sun or Tiphareth-the higher self, the "nature of the Lord" is the creative word. see [26](26). From: חידה [cheedaw](/keys/ChIDH) riddle, puzzle. see [375](375).

### [vayi-yetzer IHVH Elohim](/keys/VIITzR.IHVH.ALHIM) - וייצר יהוה אלהים
> and IHVH Elohim formed. [Genesis 2:7](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-7.htm): *"and the Lord God formed man of the dust of the Ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul."* see [86](86), [26](26), [315](315), [50](50), [350](350), [45](45), [18](18).

### [minni-khiskek](/keys/MNI-ChShK) - מני חשך
> out of darkness. [Job 12:12](http://biblehub.com/job/12-12.htm): *"He discovered deep things out of darkness, and brings out of light the shadow of death."* see [1285](1285), [1044](1044).

### [Tav-Heh-Vav](/keys/ThV-HH-VV) - תו הה וו
> The letter name for tohu, meaning "without form." [Genesis 1:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-2.htm): *"And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters."* see [411](411), [328](328).

### [ehben shelemah](/keys/ABN.ShLMH) - אבן שלמה
> a perfect weight (stone). [Deuteronomy 25:15](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/25-15.htm): *"But thou shall have a perfect and just weight, a perfect and just measure thou shall have, that thy days may be lengthened in the land which the Lord thy God gives thee."* Note that שלמה spells Solomon. see [628](628).

### [betok](/keys/BThVK) - בתוך
> in the midst, in the middle. [Genesis 1:6](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-6.htm): *"And God said, let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters."* see [380](380), [382](382), [405](405).

### [gashikalh](/keys/GOShKLH) - געשכלה
> the breaker of pieces. Qlippoth of Chesed. געש: shaking, quaking, כלה: complete destruction.

### See Also:

- [14](14)
- [5](5)