## 437 - Four Hundred Thirty-Seven
> (19x23)

---

### [Sepher Mem + bawdawh](/keys/SPR-MIM.BDA)
> book M plus to form, fashion, to produce something new. To read "Book M" the lux mundi or "light of the world" is necessary. The illuminati are recipients, through intuition, of the perfect understanding of the meaning of the cosmic order, and can read the "one, only book" from which all secrets are to be learned. The archetypal phase of the creative process is imagination, inventing a new form of selfexpression in the plane of original ideas. see 430, 7.

---

### [hinnay yesad be-Tzion ehben + hakobode](/keys/HNNI.ISD.BTzIVN.ABN.HKBVD)
> _"Behold, I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone"_ plus _"the glory"_. Zion is the holy of holies the stone is the consciousness of union with the source. "The glory" is the mass of potential working power concentrated at the center. It is the rolled-up scroll or seed idea of the High Priestess, concentrated in the primal will at the beginning of a cycle of the life-power's selfexpression. see 400, 37.

---

### [avara + tawhayra](/keys/AVIRA.THRH)
> ether + cleansing, purifying. The ether (Air) comes from light, symbolized by the letter Yod in IHVH, according to the wise of Israel. receptivity to this ether implies cleansing and purification. see 218, 219.

---

### [et-Leah](/keys/ATh-LAH) - את־לאה
[Leah](https://biblehub.com/hebrew/leah_3812.htm), wife of Jacob. "weary".

- [Genesis 29:23](https://biblehub.com/genesis/29-23.htm): _"And it came to pass in the evening, that he took **Leah** his daughter, and brought her to him. And he went in unto her."_
- [Genesis 49:31](https://biblehub.com/genesis/49-31.htm): _"there they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife; there they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife; and there I buried **Leah**:"_

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [](/greek?word=) (Gr) -

([Concordance]())

- [](): _""_
- [](): _""_
- [](): _""_
- [](): _""_

---

### [](/latin?word=) (Lt)

[definition](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=THE_WORD)

---

### See Also:

- [99](99)
