## 438 - Four Hundred Thirty-Eight
> (2x3x73)

---

### [yado shechom](/keys/IDO.ShChVM) - ידע שחום
> Gates of the shadow of death; the 5th hell, corresponding to Geburah, and to the Moslem sakar [Mem = 600, see [998](998)].

---

### [ve-tubal](/keys/VThBL) - ותבל
> [Ezekiel 32:26](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/32-26.htm): *"There is Meshech, tubal, and all her multitude her graves are round about him: all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword, though they caused their terror in the land of the living."* Tubal here is listed among the unredeemed offspring of God; i.e. those who do not possess the perfect stone.

> Note that תבל, [tubal](/keys/ThBL) ([432](432)) means: the inhabited world; earth of Yesod, to season, improve. The addition of Vav makes the "off-spring, joined by the nail." see [598](598), [1248](1248), [116](116) (Greek).

---

### [eth-Abel](/keys/ATh-HBL) - את־הבל
Abel, brother of Cain. See [37](37). [Genesis 4:2](https://biblehub.com/genesis/4-2.htm): *"And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground."*

---

### [lezoth](/keys/LZATh) - לזאת
to her. [Genesis 2:23](https://biblehub.com/genesis/2-23.htm): *"And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh: **she** shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [hyle](/greek?word=ulh) (Gr) - ὕλη
> wood; symbol of universal substance. "In the beginning when, according to the testimony of scripture, God made heaven and earth, there was only one matter, neither wet not dry, neither earth, nor air, nor fire, nor light, nor darkness, but one single substance, resembling vapor or mist, invisible and impalpable. It was called Hyle, or the first matter." [Hermetic Museum I, p.184]

> "It is that one thing which is not dug up from mines, or from the caverns of the earth, like gold, silver, sulpher, salt, etc. But is found in the form which God originally imparted to it. It is formed and manifested by an excessive thickening of air; as soon as it leaves its body, it is clearly seen, but it vanishes without a trace as soon as it touches the earth, and, as it is never seen again, it must therefore be caught while it is still in the air, as I told you once before. I have called it by various names, but the simplest is perhaps that of 'Hyle' or first principle of all things." [Hermetic Museum I, p.186]

---

### See Also:

- [15](15)
- [6](6)
- [Bible Wheel: 438](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=438)
