## 440 - Four Hundred Forty
> (5x8x11)

---

### [toom](/keys/ThM) - תם
> completeness, perfection, piety, innocence, sincerity, mildness. The ultimate attainment and perfection, found at the center of the Cube of Space. When the eye of the soul is single, the whole body is filled with light of the White Brilliance, and the soul is liberated-set free from the illusions of appearance. Refers to [Mem](/keys/M) as the [23rd Path](23) of Wisdom. see [441](441), [510](510).

---

### [chazchazith](/keys/ChZChZITh) - חזחזית
> wheelings, circling. Chaldaic word derived from the same root as חזות, [Chazoth](/keys/ChZVTh), signifying vision or revelation. Refers to Beth, the 12th Path as being an image (body or substance) of the phase of Gedulah (cosmic memory) or Chesed in Kether-the eternal cycles of the essential memory of itself and its activities and powers. Recall each sephirah is also a tree of 10 sephiroth. It is the source of vision of the eternal cycles of the essential memory of itself and its activities and powers. Ordinary sight is in a way memory; for we do not "see" anything until we "recognize" it. Insight is the real power at work in the 12th path (the Magician). This is the "source of vision in those who behold apparitions." see [421](421), [412](412), [567](567), [8](8), [2080](2080).

---

### [Saykel Kelali](/keys/ShKL.KLLI) - שכל כללי
> Collective Intelligence. Title of Resh, the [30th Path](30) of Wisdom. Connects the sphere of the intellect (Mercury) with that of the automatic consciousness (Moon). This path has to do with the completion of the Great Work-the "new creature", evolved from the natural man by the Life-power, working through the mental, emotional and physical activities of the human personality. The inner transforming power is the Ego (Christos). The possessor of this path has unusual insight into human nature. He is free from attachment to persons and things, and the pairs of opposites do not disturb his calm poise. His "receptors" -- centers in the nervous system, brain and related glands -- function differently. He has another kind of vision and is skillful where most persons are inept. Perfected by the true knowledge of the stars, his personality is enriched -- he enjoys fertility instead of sterility. He knows that man is the synthesis of all cosmic activities, and that human intelligence gathers the threads of the life-power's self-manifestations and carries it beyond anything that could come into existence apart from himself. see [90](90), [80](80), [210](210), [510](510), [200](200).

---

### [theli](/keys/ThLI) - תלי
> the dragon; Satan. see [700](700).

---

### [shemonim](/keys/ShMNIM) - שמנים
> eighty (80); the numerical value of Peh, associated with Mars. In [Canticles 6:8](http://biblehub.com/songs/6-8.htm): *"Sixty queens there may be, and eighty concubines, and virgins without number, [6:9](http://biblehub.com/songs/6-9.htm) but my dove, my perfect one, is unique, the only daughter of her mother, the favorite of the one who bore her. The maidens saw her and called her blessed; the queens and concubines phrased her."* see [1000](1000).

---

### [meth](/keys/MTh) - מת
> "dead". [Psalm 31:12](http://biblehub.com/psalms/31-12.htm): *"I am forgotten by them as though were dead; I have become like broken pottery."*

---

### [Dalluth](/keys/DLVTh) - דלות
> Poverty, penury, destitution. Poverty, is a play on the letter name Daleth, [434](434), according to this passage in the Book of Concealed Mystery [I:40, p.60]: *"That man [i.e. Jacob] shall say, 'I am the Lord's, he descends.' That is, that very conception of the word I, אני, [61](61), which is elsewhere attributed to the supernal mother [Binah], forasmuch as in her agree the three letters of the word אני, [Ani](/keys/ANI), I; namely [Aleph](/keys/A) is the highest crown; [Nun](/keys/N) it the understanding itself, in its fifty celebrated gates; [Yod](/keys/I) is the foundation or knowledge of the father; but in this instance it is attributed to the lowest grade of the lower mother and now is אדני [Adonai](/keys/ADNI), without the Daleth, or poverty, but filled with the influx, and is אני ani."* see [61](61), [65](65).

> The result of "folly": "the wages of sin is death."

---

### [yakhudotho](/keys/IChVDVThV) - יחודותו
> "his individuality". see [2945](2945), [425](425), [1052](1052).

> It is clear, from the above gematria, that the individuality is realized though the power of the serpent, working with the collective intelligence of the sun ([Key 19](19)), which brings completeness to the personality. This word is derived from יחוד, [yachud](/keys/IChVD), [28](28), profession of the unity of God; union, communion; privacy, private meeting.

---

### [shidapown](/keys/ShDPVN) - שדפון
> blasting, scorching.

> [Deuteronomy 28:22](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/28-22.htm): *"The LORD shall smite thee with a consumption, and with a fever, and with an inflammation, and with an extreme burning, and with the sword, and with **blasting**, and with mildew; and they shall pursue thee until thou perish."*

> Also in [Amos 4:9](http://biblehub.com/amos/4-9.htm): *"I have smitten you with **blasting** and mildew: when your garden and your vineyards and your fig trees and your olive trees increased, the creeping locust devoured them: yet have you not returned to me, says the Lord."*

> see [384](384), [389](389).

---

### [la-IHVH ha-aretz vu-meloah](/keys/LIHVH.HARTz.VMLVAH) - ליהוה הארץ ומלואה
> [Psalm 24:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/24-1.htm): *"The earth is the LORD's and the fulness thereof."*

---

### [tawhalaw](/keys/ThHLH) - תהלה
> folly, error, sin. The sin of misdirecting the serpent-power (kundalini) to activate the lower centers only.

---

### [mikasheph](/keys/MKShP) - מכשף
> Magician, sorcerer. see [445](445).

---

### [tehelaw, tehellah](/keys/ThHLH) - תהלה
> Praise, adoration; fame, renown, glory; song of praise, Psalm. Rosenroth gives in [K.D.L.C.K. p.90, 727] The consequence of overcoming folly. Refers to the name of Adonai, the liberated kingdom in Malkuth. Also on page 728 he gives: collaudatio, and says the Binah is the place of redemption, liberation and salvation.

---

### [marar](/keys/MRR) - מרר
> to make bitter, to be embittered. As a noun, gall, bitter herbs, etc. Also to flow, to run, to ooze out. see [250](250), [245](245), [290](290).

---

### See Also:

- [44](44)
- [8](8)