## 443 - Four Hundred Forty-Three
> (prime)

---

### [Bethel](/keys/BITh.AL) - בית אל
> House of God [Genesis 28:19](http://biblehub.com/genesis/28-19.htm). The name of the place at which Jacob had his dream of the Ladder. see [496](496).

---

### [bethulah](/keys/BThVLH) - בתולה
> virgin maiden; sign of Virgo. a title of Malkuth. Figuratively, a city. Its root-meaning is "separated one," "to separate". This is precisely the root-meaning of the Greek original for "Hermit." see [10](10), [145](145).

> - In [Genesis 24:16](http://biblehub.com/genesis/24-16.htm): *"And the damsel was very beautiful to look upon, a virgin whom no man had known; and she went down to the well and filled her pitcher and came up."*
> - Also in [Exodus 22:16](http://biblehub.com/exodus/22-16.htm): *"And if a man entices a virgin who is not betrothed, and lies with her, he shall surely marry her."*
> - In [Joel 1:8](http://biblehub.com/joel/1-8.htm) *"Lament like a virgin girded with sackcloth for the husband of her youth."*
> - Poetical term for the Jewish nation in [Amos 5:2](http://biblehub.com/amos/5-2.htm) *"The virgin of Israel is fallen, she shall no more rise, she is left lying on the ground, there is none to raise her up."*

---

### [derek ha-ruach](/keys/DRK.HRVCh) - דרך הרוח
> the way of the spirit. [Ecclesiastes 11:5](http://biblehub.com/ecclesiastes/11-5.htm): *"As you know not what is the way of the spirit, nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child: even so you know not the works of God who makes all (things)."*

---

### [Goliath](/keys/GLITh) - גלית
> Captivity, bondage. The name of the giant who was slain by David [DVD,14] Has deep occult meaning. [1 Samuel 17:4](http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/17-4.htm): *"And there went out a champion out of the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span."* Related to the "dweller of the threshold." See Steiner: Knowledge of Higher Worlds, [123](123) (Greek).

> D.D. Bryant related the 5 stones David killed Goliath with to the five interior senses, *"all uniting to form one perception (see #[24](24), note).... so the five stones merge into one stone that does the work of killing the Giant, the dark body looming up so vast and filling the entire [alchemical] vase of art."*

> Paul Case: *Note that D.D.B. recognizes the inner sensorium corresponding to the five outer senses. It seems likely, therefore that he speaks of seeing and handling the stone as an interior experience, which, although it is as vividly objective as any physical sense-experience, depends upon the inner faculties. Hence it maybe, he speaks of the "unfoldment" of the stone, and compares it here to "one perception" which annihilates Goliath (GLIVTh, [449](449)).*

> *Here we may recall that in [Judges 5:12](http://biblehub.com/judges/5-12.htm) occurs the sayings "Awake, awake [Deborah](/keys/DBRH) (דברה, [217](217), a bee, from דבר, [212](212), to arrange or regulate, suggesting the industry of the bee); Awake, Awake, utter a song; arise, [Barak](/keys/BRQ) (ברק, [302](302), lightning, brilliancy) and lead thy captivity captive, thou son of [Abinoam](/keys/ABINVOM) (אבינועם, [179](179), father, or possessor of Grace.) The words "lead captivity captive" suggest the overcoming of the principle of bondage by itself. Thus although David knocks Goliath down with the stone, he despatches the giant by cutting off his head with Goliath's own sword, which later on, David himself appropriates and uses for his own.*

> *Compare also [Psalm 68:18](http://biblehub.com/psalms/68-18.htm): "Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast held captivity captive. The hast received gifts for men, yea, for the rebellious also, that the Lord God might dwell among them." And [Ephesians 4:7,8](http://biblehub.com/ephesians/4-7.htm): "But unto every one of us is given grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ. Wherefore he says, when he ascended upon high, he lead captivity captive, and gave gifts unto men." The latter shows the same connection between "grace" and the overcoming of bondage as is suggested by the proper name Abinoam."* [PFC on D.D.B. The Philosophers Stone, IX]. See [24](24) note, [14](14).

---

### [yithgal](/keys/IThGL) - יתגל
> was uncovered. [Genesis 9:21](http://biblehub.com/genesis/9-21.htm): *"And he [Noah] drank of the wine, and was drunken; and he was uncovered within his tent."* This, from the story of Noah and the curse of Canaan, has a direct connection with the word Goliath. "What is uncovered" is the gigantic adversary which is overcome by true vision. The appearances of the physical plane deceive us by seeming to show us all there is to see. The same idea is concealed in the story of the fall. the subtlety of the serpent consists in the apparent exposure of truth, when truth is really hidden behind the manifestations of name and from we precede by means of the physical sense. see [20](20), [351](351), [570](570), [496](496).

---

### [eth-Jabal](/keys/ATh-IBL) - את־יבל
Son of Lamech and father of shepherds. [Genesis 4:20](https://biblehub.com/genesis/4-20.htm): *"And Adah bare Jabal: he was the father of such as dwell in tents, and of such as have cattle."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [ho Logos](/greek?word=o.logos) (Gr) - ὁ Λόγος
> the Word; creative expression. The thought-in-expression. This serves to identify the Hermit with the One Identity, which is described in the beginning of the Gospel of Saint John.

---

### [Jordanehs](/greek?word=iordanhs) (Gr) - Ἰορδάνης
> The Greek for [Jordan](/keys/IRDN) (ירדן), "descending." "That which flows down, down it the dead sea." Symbol of the river of manifestation, the stream of Maya, the illusive power of manifestation. see [705](705).

---

### [aisma kainon](/greek?word=asma.kainon) (Gr) - ᾆσμα καινόν
> "a new song". Septuagint translation of [shir chadash](/keys/ShIR.ChDSh) [822](822) in [Psalm 149:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/149-1.htm): *"Praise ye the Lord. Sing unto the Lord a new song, and his praise in the congregation of saints."* see [822](822), [510](510), [1394](1394).

---

### See Also;

- [11](11)
- [2](2)
- [Bible Wheel: 443](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=443)
