## 454 - Four Hundred Fifty-Four
> (2x227)

---

### [tawmeed](/keys/ThMID) - תמיד
> indefinite extension of time. Also: continuance, extension, constant, always, stretch. In ancient Hebrew, refers most often to perpetual time. Root of Intelligence of Shin. see [814](814), [464](464).

---

### [Zaharariel](/keys/ZHRARIAL) - זהראריאל
> a title of Tiphareth, according to Godwin. Davidson gives Zahariel ("brightness") and says this is a great angle mentioned in the words of Jewish mystic writers, specifically the apocalypse of Abraham. In Levi, transcendental Magic, Zahariel is an angel invoked to resist the temptations of the person of the arch-fiend Moloch." [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.325]

---

### [gawdol shemi ba-goyim](/keys/GDVL.ShMI.BGVIM) - גדול שמי בגוים
> my name shall be great among the gentiles. Jewish translation: "is great". [Malachi 1:11](http://biblehub.com/malachi/1-11.htm): *"For from the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the same my name shall be great among the gentiles; and in every place incense shall be offered, unto my name: for my name shall be great among the heathen, says the Lord of Hosts."* The "Lord of Hosts" is attributed to Netzach, sphere of Venus. see [525](525).

> *"... in Hebrew 'nations' is 'goyim' and refers to the gentiles. The 'nations' esoterically are the millions upon millions of cells not directly connected with controlling the functions of the body..."* [20th Communication]. see [59](59), [The word GVIM may be the plural of GV meaning, 'gathering of people; midst, interior; body, back. with different vowel points, within, inside.]

---

### [qadashim](/keys/QDShIM) - קדשים
> The holy ones. According to Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.47] These are consecrated catamites kept by the priesthood. ('Catamite - boy kept for unnatural purposes' Webster). The misuse of desire connected with the power of Venus can make unholy what is holy. see [410](410).

---

### [hamuth](/keys/ChMVTh) - חמות
> walls. [Isaiah 49:16](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/49-16.htm): *"Behold, I have graven thee upon the palms of my hands; thy wall are continually before me."* "thy walls" = [hamuthyik](/keys/ChVMThIK), חומתיך, the singular is חומה, [howmah](/keys/ChVMH) wall, city wall. Also:

> - חמות husband's mother; mother-in-law;
> - חמות warmth.

---

### [howtam](/keys/ChVThM) - חותם
> seal, signet-ring. [Job 38:14](http://biblehub.com/job/38-14.htm): *"The earth takes shape like clay under a **seal**; its features stand out like those of a garment."* Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.338] refers to the word as sigilium, and refers it to Tiphareth. A complicated discussion follows, with other attributions.

---

### See Also:

- [13](13)
- [4](4)
