## 458 - Four Hundred Fifty-Eight
> (2x229)

---

### [biath hasoal](/keys/BIATh.HGVAL) - 
> The coming of the redeemer (messiah). GVAL ([40](40)) is a title of Yesod. The redeemer is the Sun (i.e. Tiphareth) or Bridegroom.

---

### [kebel-Tav](/keys/KBL-ThV) - 
> cable-tow (variant spelling). cord which binds; the covenant of love. see [446](446).

---

### [shaykhawqim, shechaqim](/keys/ShChQIM) - 
> Thin garments, cloudy heavens. clouds. The 3rd Heaven [Godwin] corresponding to Netzach, sphere of Venus or desires and imagination. According to Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.710] these are contusores, called Netzach and Hod, the breakers of manna, i.e. they prepare the influence from Tiphareth to Yesod. Translated "heaven" in [Deuteronomy 33:26](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/33-26.htm): *"There in none like unto the God of Jeshurun, who rides upon the heaven in thy help, and in his excellency on the sky."* see [1018](1018).

---

### [baal-payoor](/keys/BOL.POVR) - 
> The name of a Moabite deity, in whose honor virgins prostituted themselves. [Inman: Ancient Faiths II. p.471] see [356](356). POVR = uncovering-oneself]

---

### [ruach IHVH diber-biy](/keys/RVCh.IHVH.DBR-BI) - 
> The spirit of the Lord. spoke by me. [2 Samuel 23:2](http://biblehub.com/2_samuel/23-2.htm): *"The spirit of the Lord spoke by me, and his word was in my tongue."* see 1436.

---

### [nawchath](/keys/NChTh) - 
> coming down. also: lighting down in [Isaiah 30:30](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/30-30.htm): *"And the Lord shall cause his glorious voice, to be heard, and shall show the lighting down of his arm with the indignation of his anger [i.e. his descending blows] and with the flame of a devouring fire, with the rainstorm and tempest and hailstones."* Spelled VNChTh, and-the-coming-down-of in the Interlinear Bible.


