## 463 - Four Hundred Sixty-Three
> (prime)

---

### [Gimel-Samekh-Tav](/keys/G-S-Th) - ג־ס־ת
> A reference to the Paths on the Middle pillar. *"The wand the Fool carries over his shoulder is 463 lines long. This is a reference to the middle pillar, because the letters of that pillar are Gimel, Samekh and Tav. In numbers, [3](3), [60](60), and [400](400) respectively. Look well at the picture of the Fool bearing this in mind and you will find another clue to the magical significance of the middle pillar and to the practical application thereof. See that 463 reduces finally to 4, the number of Daleth. The secret of all works is a secret of the Empress. What her secret is, the Rota shows you plainly when it is placed correctly on the Tree. For the secret of the Empress is then seen to be none other than the mystery of Da'ath, in which all the secret places are filled, and the practical work is one of creative imagination even though it directs the serpent power. Moreover, is not the letter Nun, which stands, as does also the letter Teth for that power, the letter of the Path sometimes called the Imaginative Intelligence? All magic is truly fundamentally in the will, but becomes operative and effective only through imagination, and no imagination is either pure or potent without understanding the Qabalistic name for what is more often called love. This last word Qabalists use sparingly because it has so many contradictory connotations, but there is never any true love apart from what the Tree represents by Binah, and into Binah runs the Path of the Empress. Here, if you look deep, is the secret of the Stone of the Wise, and the Emerald Tablet gives you another hint when it says: "All things have their birth from One." Even chairs and tables are born not made, but few there be who see this, and that is why there are only a few true magicians. But when countenance beholds countenance, when Kallah and Ben are united, when the returning current of the White Brilliance flashes upward through the middle pillar into and beyond the veil of the NO THING which is the primal BTN, then is the Great Work completed, for then is conceived the Heavenly ADM of whom our Brother and Father C.R. is a type.*

> *They who are called to this must open the Temple in all solemnity, and be wholly dedicated to the highest. You have been called, but the tests, before you may be chosen, are not easy, nor may ever the least of them be ignored.* [20th Communication]. see [124](124), [4](4), [474](474), [61](61), [220](220).

---

### [Neshamah chaiim](/keys/NShMH.ChIIM) - נשמה חיים
> the breath of life. [Genesis 2:7](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-7.htm): *"And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul."* Note: in Genesis 2:7 it is written NShMTh. NShMH is the feminine singular for breath; vital sprit, life; spirit, soul, living creature. see [395](395).

---

### [taykhinah](/keys/ThChNH) - תחנה
> mercy, favor, grace; supplication, prayer. [ThChN prayer, supplicated] mercy suggest Chesed, the link between the supernal triad (through Binah to Ruach, of the 6 Sephiroth from Chesed to Yesod. This linkage is by "grace" through prayer, i.e. meditation, and employs the divine volition through the "breath of life."

---

### [tagin](/keys/ThGIN) - תגין
> caps, crown, diadems. Receptors of the supernal influence form Kether; symbols of attainment and dominion. see [460](460). Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K.] gives: ?pkakatio?, and say it is Malkuth.

---

### [zekokith](/keys/ZKVKITh) - זכוכית
> crystal, glass. The "Adytum" or holy of holies in the brain of an adept is a crystal receptor of the higher worlds."

---

### [matten ha-shaqad](/keys/MTH.HShQD) - מטה השקד
> a rod of almond. The "rod" is connected with divine will, flowing through the spine in the microcosm; "almond" is connected with Kether. see [54](54), [404](404). [MThH stick, rod, staff; branch; tribe support. MThH bed, couch, litter; bier].

---

### [Bathin](/keys/BAThIN) - באתין
> Goetic demon by day of the third decanate of Virgo, ruled by Venus. corresponds to the 10 of Pentacles. see [1113](1113).

---

### [erech tzadiquim](/keys/ARCh.TzDIQIM) - ארח צדיקים
> The path of the just. A term used to describe the middle pillar of the Tree of Life. This is the way of attainment to the higher consciousness and it is achieved by being in harmony with the divine will or Justice. see [85](85), [95](95), [89](89), [73](73), [120](120), [406](406).

> *"Above Yesod is the path of Samekh, descending from MLK, the seat of RVCh; and above the King who is also BN, the son, extends upwards the path of union which descends from the crown. Thus from Kether to Malkuth descends one unbroken path, though it hath three parts, Gimel, Samekh and Tav. For this is ARCh TzDIQIM (Erech Tzadiqim, the path of the just), and the path of the just is the Middle Pillar of the Tree.*

> *Comment: In transcribing this, P.F.C. notes also that the paths of Gimel and Samekh are both blue, and that Tav, the lowest path of the Middle Pillar, is blue-violet, as if the blue of Samekh, after passing through Yesod, had become tinged with the violet of that Sephirah." The text continues: Below the Son descends the path of SMK, Samekh, which carries the power of the Son to Yesod. For the path of the just is the path of union and support, and it ends in that center which is the abode of the Most High. Verily, in Guph does the power of the Crown stand centered!"* [9th Communication]

> *"....Thus all the horizontal paths are feminine, even though the path of Peh is related to Mars, and the ruling power in the path of Teth is the Sun. Now, in the Rota, Samekh is sometimes represented as Diana, so that there is in this path a lunar influence. SMK is 120, and this reduces to 3, that is, Gimel. But the paths of Samekh and Gimel are vertical, or masculine, so that in the three crossings male and female powers are conjoined at the point of crossing. This is the clue to the secret. Venus and Moon at the upper point. Sun and Moon at the point where Teth crosses Gimel, and Mars and Jupiter at the crossing of Samekh and Peh. Note these carefully, and mark well also the close relation between Saturn and Venus. Here are the keys to practical knowledge of utmost importance. All this is on the Middle Pillar, and if you do but consider the Sephiroth thereon, and their meanings, you should have little difficulty.* [11th Communication]

> *"On the Tree the quickest way from Malkuth to Kether, is up the middle pillar. In our Order, at the first step upward, attention is focused, not too obtrusively perhaps, on Da'ath; and Da'ath is for Qabalists the union of AB and AIMA, pictured in the Rota by the Empress. The "straight and narrow path" is up the middle pillar. See what it comprises: first Saturn, and in Malkuth Guph, then in Yesod Mars. This you may not see at first, but ISVD being 80 is equivalent to Peh, P, and P is the letter of Mars. Thus Yesod and the reciprocal Path of the Active or Exciting Intelligence are two aspects of the same thing. This reciprocal Path crosses the Path of Samekh, and note well of Samekh, that this letter being the Tent-peg or prop, has the same basic meaning as Yesod the Foundation. Furthermore, the old form of the letter Samekh shows plainly what it signifies, and in the flame alphabet, this same letter is like the Magician's girdle, a serpent with its tail in its mouth, symbol of eternity. But more than this, a symbol of the serpent power feeding on itself and increasing in potency by being magically directed. This, in all forms of magic, involves the change from temporal to eternal expression, and this is so subtle that we shall omit further elucidation now.*

> *To go back a little, Samekh on the Tree and in the Rota is Jupiterian, and refers of course, to that inner center we denominate as Jupiter. Consider Key 14 in this connection and see that above it is the Sphere of the Sun, with the Path of Teth above it. Just as the Path of Peh is above Yesod. Now between the heart symbolized by Tiphareth and Teth, and the head in Kether, runs the Path of Gimel, for all these centers are part of the subconscious functioning of the High Priestess or the Moon. But after the heart center, as one rises through the middle pillar, the next cross point is where Daleth crosses Gimel. This in Rota is the Empress, and in the human body is the Venus center. Above it however, the Path of Gimel continues, and by looking at the picture Key 2, you may see at once that only the upper part shows plain Moon symbolism. Her crown this is, and it corresponds to the portion of the Path of Gimel above the point where the Path of Daleth crosses it.*

> *So now you have definitely located on the Tree six of the Interior Stars, Mercury, that is the Mercury of the Sages is the 7th and highest, and this is Kether itself. So descending from it are the Paths of the Magician and the Fool. The first is Mercury, and so is the Fool in reality, for the Fool is the higher aspect of what the Magician typifies. Just as in astrology Uranus is the octave of Mercury. On the middle pillar than, is the Path from the Bride to the Crown, and here, if you have ears to hear is the hidden knowledge. For even the Crown is but the center of manifestation for AIN, and AIN is the same as ANI, but more than this AIN is 61, and 61 is BTN, Behten the womb of the Dark Mother spoken of at the beginning of the Stanzas of Dzian as the 'Eternal Parent.' Here is the Key to the most potent of magical operations. They who can, may find the lock which it opens into the garden. For remember Adonai in its fullness is the same number as ThROA the Gate, and this door, where will you find it but in Malkuth?"* [20th Communication]

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [to thelema](/greek?word=to+thelhma) (Gr) - τὸ θέλημα
> the will. [Matthew 7:21](http://biblehub.com/matthew/7-21.htm): *"Not everyone who says to me, 'Master, Master, will enter into the kingdom of heavens; but he who performs the will of the father of mine in the heavens."*

---

### [entoleh](/greek?word=entolh) (Gr) - ἐντολὴ
> the precept. [John 15:12](http://biblehub.com/john/15-12.htm): *"This is **my commandment**, that you love each other as I loved you."*

---

### [apotageh](/greek?word=apotagh) (Gr) - αποταγη
> renunciation. A favorite mystery word with the gnostics, who appear to have well understood the necessity of the connection between σ (gnosis) and απ τα σμ (the renunciation of the world). see [1263](1263), [Apostolic Gnosis, p.118]

---

### See Also:

- [13](13)
- [4](4)
- [Bible Wheel: 463](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=463)

