## 466 - Four Hundred Sixty-Six
466 (2x233)

---

### [Gulgoleth](/keys/GLGLTh) - גלגלת
> the skull, head. The place where Jesus underwent crucification. see [478](478), [301](301) Greek, [186](186).

> *[beginning of text missing] Christ (the son) is said to be crucified at Golgotha..."* see [466](466). The way to the :skull: is the path of truth. see [441](441), [475](475).

> [Canon, p.148]: *"(Golgotha) is also spelt גלגלתא [467](467) - 1 = [466](466): and a cross whose height is 466 has some very remarkable cosmic analogies. Its transverse beam is [216](216), or the diameter of the sun's orbit measured by its own diameter. Its extreme measure is [666](666), the length of the sun's ark. From the bottom of the center of the cross beam is [358](358), the number of the name Messiah, while the height to the top of the cross beam is 366?3/8?. And 466 is the side of a square having a diagonal of [660](660), 1/12 of the earth's diameter in miles. This may explain the translation that Golgotha, [467](467), was the middle of the earth."*

---

### [IHVH be-chokmah yawsad-eretz](/keys/IHVH.BChKMH.ISD.ARTz) - יהוה בחכמה יסד ארץ

> Tetragrammaton, by (or in) wisdom, hath founded the earth. [Proverbs 3:19](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/3-19.htm). see [536](536). The material world (Malkuth) has its actual substance (Yesod-foundation) from the radiant energy of Chokmah. This energy of אב, [Ab](/keys/AB), the father is what performs the alchemical operations described under this number. see [1276](1276).

---

### [yod vav daleth](/keys/IVD.VV.DLTh) - יוד וו דלת
> The letter name Yod spelled in plenitude. Yod is the paternal hand of creation, pictured in this word, suggest that the functions of the inner hearing and creative imagination must be employed for successful conclusion of the work begun by the "father", whose lantern sheds light of the path of return.

---

### [kilyoth](/keys/KLIVTh) - כליות
> kidneys, reins, loins; testicles. kelyoth is the plural of the noun [keli](/keys/KLI), כלי, meaning any utensil, but especially arms, or weapons of war, so that the idea is basically related to זין, the sword. Thus one girds up his loins to prepare for battle. When very little was known of anatomy it was supposed that both urine and semen were secreted by the kidneys, and in later Hebrew כליות sometimes means the testicles. Thus the word refers physically, to the primary sources of bodily power and vigor. Furthermore, the Hebrews shared the belief of all the ancient world: That the loins and reins were the seat of the lower mind, called phrehn (? ?) in Greek. It is from the Greek noun that the Latin renes, signifying kidneys, was derived and renes, passed into English as reins. In this sense כליות means "inward parts, mind, the seat of desires, affections and passions." see [658](658) Greek. Here we see the relation between fixed cardinal air (Libra), governing the kidneys-equilibrium, and mutable air (Gemini) - discrimination. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.478] gives: renes, who says they are Netzach and Hod.

---

### [Olahm ha-Yetzirah](/keys/OVLM.HITzIRH) - עולם היצירה
> World of Formation. In Qabalah, the plane of the Life-power's activity next above, and within, the physical plane. The physical plane is the world of making, or world of manifested forms. The World of Formation or astral plane (Vav in IHVH) must be controlled and directed by the reins and discrimination to effect a change in the "skull". The angelic kingdom, attributed to this plane, is of great use here. see [536](536), [315](315), [1026](1026).

---

### [Simeone](/keys/ShMOVN) - שמעון
> hearing; tribe of Israel corresponding to Zain and Gemini. In [Genesis 49:5](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-5.htm) (a reference of Simeon and Levi): *"Ruthless weapons are their daggers."* This obviously refers to the meaning of the letter name Zain. see [513](513), [497](497), [67](67), [273](273), [739](739).

> xxx [beginning of text missing] ...power are rightly perceived, rightly discriminated, and when their operation is kept in proper order (that is, properly fixed), the personality of the one engaged in this practice is merged with the Life-power itself. this is accomplished with the aid of smell or true discrimination working through the Mercury and Venus centers in the head and throat. see [95](95), [30](30), [570](570), [501](501), [54](54), [162](162), [830](830), [395](395), [259](259), [7](7), [331](331).

> Simeon also means: to hear; to listen, give heed, to obey; to understand, to infer, deduce. From שמע shema, the confession of the unity of God; calling together; hearing capacity (other pointings). see [420](420). This is the inner hearing which Vav the Hierophant represents. Jesus called Simon (Peter) "Hearing, son of the dove" (bar-Jonah). the "dove" is Venus. Hearing (Vav) precedes discrimination (Zain).

---

### [Nuith](/keys/NVITh) - נוית
> Nuit, Hebrew transliteration of the name of the Egyptian sky Goddess.

---

### [sethav](/keys/SThV) - סתו
> autumn; "winter" in [Canticles 2:11](http://biblehub.com/songs/2-11.htm): *"For the winter is past, the rain is over and gone."*

---

### [veth-chawilah](/keys/VATh-ChVILH) - ואת־חוילה
AND [HAVILAH](/keys/ChVILH). "Whirling Sand". Son of [Joktan](/keys/IQTN). Grandson of [Eber](/keys/OBR). see [59](59). [Genesis 10:29](https://biblehub.com/genesis/10-29.htm): *"And Ophir, **and Havilah**, and Jobab: all these were the sons of Joktan."*

---

### [wayiten](/keys/VIThN) - ויתן
"And set". [Genesis 1:17](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-17.htm): *"And God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth"*

---

### [mitowk](/keys/MThVK) - מתוך
out of the midst. [Genesis 19:29](https://biblehub.com/genesis/19-29.htm): *"And it came to pass, when God destroyed the cities of the plain, that God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot **out of the midst** of the overthrow, when he overthrew the cities in the which Lot dwelt"*

---

### [shema'enu](/keys/ShMONV) - שמענו
hear us. [Genesis 23:6](https://biblehub.com/genesis/23-6.htm): *"**Hear us**, my lord: thou art a mighty prince among us: in the choice of our sepulchres bury thy dead; none of us shall withhold from thee his sepulchre, but that thou mayest bury thy dead"*

---

### [yitenu](/keys/IThNV) - יתנו
they will give. [Genesis 24:41](https://biblehub.com/genesis/24-41.htm): *"Then shalt thou be clear from this my oath, when thou comest to my kindred; and **if they give** not thee one, thou shalt be clear from my oath"*

---

### [weyakeshan](/keys/VIQShN) - ויקשן
and Jokshan. [Genesis 25:3](https://biblehub.com/genesis/25-3.htm): *"**And Jokshan** begat Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim"*

---

### [waynasheq](/keys/VINShQ) - וינשק
and kissed. see also [waynasheq-lo](/keys/VINShQ-LV) "and kissed him". [Genesis 29:13](https://biblehub.com/genesis/29-13.htm): *"And it came to pass, when Laban heard the tidings of Jacob his sister's son, that he ran to meet him, and embraced him, **and kissed** him, and brought him to his house. And he told Laban all these things"*

---

### [tibachenu](/keys/ThBChNV) - תבחנו
you shall be tested. [Genesis 42:15](https://biblehub.com/genesis/42-15.htm): *"Hereby **ye shall be proved**: By the life of Pharaoh ye shall not go forth hence, except your youngest brother come hither."*

---

### [hit'haleku](/keys/HThHLKV) - התהלכו
walked. [Genesis 48:15](https://biblehub.com/genesis/48-15.htm): *"And he blessed Joseph, and said, God, before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac **did walk**, the God which fed me all my life long unto this day"*

---

### [mimaashiyu](/keys/MMOShIV) - ממעשיו
from their work. [Exodus 5:4](https://biblehub.com/exodus/5-4.htm): *"And the king of Egypt said unto them, Wherefore do ye, Moses and Aaron, let the people **from their works**? get you unto your burdens"*

---

### [haekalti](/keys/HAKLThI) - האכלתי
I fed. [Exodus 16:32](https://biblehub.com/exodus/16-32.htm): *"And Moses said, This is the thing which the LORD commandeth, Fill an omer of it to be kept for your generations; that they may see the bread wherewith **I have fed** you in the wilderness, when I brought you forth from the land of Egypt"*

---

### [tameku](/keys/ThMKV) - תמכו
supported. [Exodus 17:12](https://biblehub.com/exodus/17-12.htm): *"But Moses' hands were heavy; and they took a stone, and put it under him, and he sat thereon; and Aaron and Hur stayed up his hands, the one on the one side, and the other on the other side; and his hands were **steady** until the going down of the sun"*

---

### [weyakaleta](/keys/VIKLTh) - תמכו
then you will be able. [Exodus 18:23](https://biblehub.com/exodus/18-23.htm): *"If thou shalt do this thing, and God command thee so, **then thou shalt be able** to endure, and all this people shall also go to their place in peace."*

---

### [wehithalek](/keys/VHThHLK) - והתהלך
and walks. [Exodus 21:19](https://biblehub.com/exodus/21-19.htm): *"If he rise again, **and walk** abroad upon his staff, then shall he that smote him be quit: only he shall pay for the loss of his time, and shall cause him to be thoroughly healed."*

---

### [wenishmaa](/keys/VNShMO) - ונשמע
and be obedient. [Exodus 24:7](https://biblehub.com/exodus/24-7.htm): *"And he took the book of the covenant, and read in the audience of the people: and they said, All that the LORD hath said will we do, **and be obedient**."*

---

### [halulaoth](/keys/HLLATh) - הללאת
the loops. [Exodus 26:5](https://biblehub.com/exodus/26-5.htm): *"Fifty loops shalt thou make in the one curtain, and fifty loops shalt thou make in the edge of the curtain that is in the coupling of the second; that **the loops** may take hold one of another."*

---

### [mikwath](/keys/MKVTh) - מכות
a burn. see also [mikwath-esh](/keys/MKVTh-ASh). [Leviticus 13:24](https://biblehub.com/leviticus/13-24.htm): *"Or if there be any flesh, in the skin whereof there is a hot **burning**, and the quick flesh that burneth have a white bright spot, somewhat reddish, or white"*

---

### [wayityaldu](/keys/VIThILDV) - ויתילדו
and they recited their ancestry. [Numbers 1:18](https://biblehub.com/numbers/1-18.htm): *"And they assembled all the congregation together on the first day of the second month, **and they declared their pedigrees** after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, by their polls."*

---

### [ubachanoth](/keys/VBChNTh) - ובחנת
and when is to be set up. [Numbers 1:51](https://biblehub.com/numbers/1-51.htm): *"And when the tabernacle setteth forward, the Levites shall take it down: **and when** the tabernacle **is to be pitched**, the Levites shall set it up: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death"*

---

### [kemoth](/keys/KMVTh) - כמות
die like. [Numbers 16:29](https://biblehub.com/numbers/16-29.htm): *"If these men **die** the common death of all men, or if they be visited after the visitation of all men; then the LORD hath not sent me"*

---

### [miyatebatha](/keys/MITBThH) - מיטבתה
from Jotbathah. [Numbers 33:34](https://biblehub.com/numbers/33-34.htm): *"And they removed **from Jotbathah**, and encamped at Ebronah."*

---

### [umehara'reha](/keys/VMHRRIH) - ומהרריה
and out of whose hills. [Deuteronomy 8:9](https://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/8-9.htm): *"A land wherein thou shalt eat bread without scarceness, thou shalt not lack any thing in it; a land whose stones are iron, **and out of whose hills** thou mayest dig brass."*

---

### [mezuzowth](/keys/MZVZVTh) - מזוזות
the doorposts. [Deuteronomy 11:20](https://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/11-20.htm): *"And thou shalt write them upon **the door posts** of thine house, and upon thy gates:"*

---

### [sowrer](/keys/SVRR) - סורר
stubborn. [Deuteronomy 21:18](https://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/21-18.htm): *"If a man have a **stubborn** and rebellious son, which will not obey the voice of his father, or the voice of his mother, and that, when they have chastened him, will not hearken unto them"*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [heh kalonoehsia](/greek?word=h+kalonoesia) - η καλονοεσια
> right perception. (not in scripture). Related to "the son of God." see [465](465), [1234](1234).

---

### [he odos alethinia](/greek?word=hodos+alhthenia) - ηοδος αληθενια
> The true way. Written ὁδὸς τῆς ἀληθείας, "the way of truth" in [2 Peter 2:2](http://biblehub.com/2_peter/2-2.htm) *"And many will follow their impurities; on account of whom the way of truth will be reviled."* And in [Psalm 119:30](http://biblehub.com/psalms/119-30.htm): *"I have chosen the way of truth, thy judgements have I laid before me."* With 'the son of God' ([1234](1234)) adds to [1702](1702). With "word of love" (#[666](666)) adds to [2368](2368), the value of Jesus Christ. see [344](344), [352](352).

---

### English Gematria:

- [The highly illuminated men, and undeceiving Jesuits](/english?word=The+highly+illuminated+men,+and+undeceiving+Jesuits) *([Fama Intro p.20](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n20))*

---

### See Also:

- [16](16)
- [7](7)
- [Bible Wheel: 466](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=466)
