## 47 - Fourty-Seven
> (prime)

---

### [ki-tob](/keys/KI-TVB) - כי־טוב
"as goodness"; "that [it was] good". [Genesis 1:4](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-4.htm): *"And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness."*

Hieroglyphically, this is grip-hand-snake-nail-house, or "house snake." Therefore, כי־טוב signifies "like my pet snake", a euphemism for the phallus, which, being the source of life, is good.

---

### [beyod El](/keys/BID.AL) - ביד אל
> "by the hand of God." [Job 27:11](http://biblehub.com//.htm).

---

### [bawmawh](/keys/BMH) - במה
> "high place", mountain, altar; non-Jewish place of worship. The Lord ascertains who is ready to be "snatched up" by the spirit to "high places".

---

### [bekyiiah](/keys/BKIIH) - בכייה
> a weeping. Part of the divine inebriation.

---

### [evuil](/keys/AVIL) - אויל
> fool. The divinely inspired.

---

### [eleyu](/keys/ALIV) - אליו
> "unto", to towards, into, at, by. [Exodus 19:3](http://biblehub.com/exodus/19-3.htm): *"And Moses went unto God, and the Lord called unto him out of the mountain, saying, thus shalt thou say to the House of Jacob, and tell the Children of Israel."*

---

### [yuel](/keys/IVAL) - יואל
> Angel ruling Virgo, connected with alchemicial distilation, and with "the hand." see [46](46).

> Godwin gives: ויאל [veyel](/keys/VIAL). This spelling, יואל, is also that of [Joel](/keys/IVAL), "Jah is God," one of the minor prophets. [Joel 1:1](http://biblehub.com/joel/1-1.htm) *"The word of the Lord that came to Joel, son of Pethuel."*

---

### [khawlat](/keys/ChLT) - חלט
> as a verb: to snatch up, decide; definitely; to ascertain; to knead with hot water. Khaylet as a noun: secretion, humor.

---

## Latin/Greek:

---

### [rosa](/latin?word=rosa) (Lt)
> Rose A symbol of aspiration, of desire and of the Human soul. The white rose represents purified desire; the red completion of the Great Work through action. see [75](75), [87](87), [194](194), [246](246) (Lt); 294 (Gr).

---

### [forma](/latin?word=forma) (Lt)
> Form Represents the embodiment of life as the "golden rose." see 101 (Latin)

---

### [vita](/latin?word=vita) (Lt)
> life. Desire for more Life involves the transmutation of the rose, and the discovery of the true "Gold." In he Rosicrucian allegory, this was the title of a Book, found in the vault and said to have been written by Brother CR, from whence the "relation" in the Fama was taken. see [18](18), [132](132), [106](106) (Lt).

---

### [aureae](/latin?word=aureae) (Lt)
> Of the Golden. Connected with the sun or alchemical gold, see [701](701) (Lt), [193](193), [79](79), [42](42) (Lt).

> Part of the Title, "Brother of the Golden Cross." Golden refers to Tiphareth, seat of the Higher Self in the heart and center of the "Rose." In the microcosm, the liquid or "potable Gold" is the solar Yod-force assimilated from food by the use of Mercury in Virgo.

---

### English Gematria:

- [sign](/english?word=sign) *([Fama Intro p.12](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n12))*

---

### See Also:

- [11](11)
- [2](2)
