## 470 - Four Hundred Seventy
> ([2](2)x[5](5)x[47](47))

---

### [ayth](/keys/OTh) - עת
> time, season; appointed time, due season; destiny,
fate; occurrence, occasion. The Book of Tokens (Cheth) says: "And
because nothing can prevail against me, Even the worst of sinners
shall come in their appointed time, to liberation.

---

### [Saykel Damyoni](/keys/ShKL.DMIVNI) - שכל דמיוני
> Imaginative Intelligence, Intelligence of Resemblance. Title of Nun, the [24th Path](24). The link between the Ego and the desire nature. The possessor of this path may "speak learnedly on all subjects" for his realizes the similarity of all created beings. The work of this path modifies the blood and its secret has to do with valuable occult properties of the blood. The fear of death (which is the name as the will-to-live) is eradicated through concentration and meditation. Practical occult word tends to put out the fires of false desire and to a host of mental images leading to action. The "Will-to-live" ceases when one finds within the fountain of limitless life and lives it to the full. Then "death" is understood as being truly beneficent. see [120](120), [106](106), [44](44), [68](68), [50](50).

> Certain brain-cells are developed to give a memory record of "out of the body" experiences. An increasing command of the subtle forces of the physical plane enable the adept to establish a perfect state of balance between those activities which tear down the body and those which build it up. He learns that he does not, and cannot "Die." Dissolution of form is a fundamental tendency of the cosmic process-all things change. Existence is a stream, a series of waves, an eternal movement. Nun means "to sprout, to grow". As the "fish" it implies continuous growth through the reproductive powers of imagination.

> *"The adjective 'imaginative", describing the 24th path, and the position of the path itself on the Tree of Life show by what means true Rosicrucians control the great magical agent. Mastery of the currents of the nervous energy in the physical body is achieved by mental imagery, but the images employed have nothing whatever to do with the sex function. All magical is accomplished by the mind's power of generating mental images. Imagination directed toward the formation of specific patterns for desirable conditions is the secret of this 24th path. The higher technique of these exercise in creative imagination has to do with building the pattern of the deathless 'solar body' which is symbolized by the rising sun in the background of Key 13. Few persons know that such a body can be built. Fewer still are aware that some human beings actually have built such a vehicle. The race-thought runs counter to this idea. We mistakenly suppose that everyone must die. this is not true, and one of the principal under takings of the invisible order is to sow this seed-idea in the race-mind as a counter-active to the natural man's belief in the reality of death."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p.356]

> *"The Path of Nun is the first manifestation of the dynamic or projective aspect of Tiphareth as contrasted with the static or receptive aspect. It is called Imaginative Intelligence because the primary activity of beauty works through imagination in brings about new modes of expression. This involves the passing away of the forms which are supplanted by those which imagination calls into existence. The passing away of supplanted forms is indicated in symbolisms of the Tarot Key entitled Death, and the fact that the new forms are developments of the old is suggested by the nature of the harvest gathered by the reaper in the picture. The result is the perfection of Netzach, for though the transformations wrought by the power of beauty the final victory is attained."* [32 Paths]

> *"I am the Intelligence of Imagination, creating an expanded, liberated life by my power of true vision."* [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom]

---

### [ha-Melek Shelomoh](/keys/HMLK.ShLMH) - המלך שלמה
> "(The) King Solomon", "(The) King of Peace". Engraved on Zinc (Jupiter) ring of magical wand. see [1010](1010), [375](375), [404](404). Solomon is the "king" or adept connected with the Sun or heart center. The Ego in Tiphareth establishes completeness, wholeness, perfection and harmony (shalom = peace) through the direction of the power of Nun.

---

### [devir devirim](/keys/DVR.DVRIM) - דור דורים
> A cycle of cycles, eternity. see [1010](1010), [1480](1480). *"A magician should work as if he had eternity in which to complete his operation".* [Eliphas Levi]

> Consciousness of eternity is accomplished by over-coming death. It is also aided by a knowledge of the cycles of Kaph, the path of Jupiter, connecting the sphere of Jupiter with the sphere of Venus on the Tree (Chesed and Netzach).

---

### [nahesey adam](/keys/NOShH.ADM) - נעשה אדם
> "Let us make man". [Genesis 1:26](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-26.htm): *"And God said, **Let us make man** in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth."*

---

### [keliothai](/keys/KLIThI) - כליתי
> "(for thou has made) my reins..." [Psalm 139:13](http://biblehub.com/psalms/139-13.htm): *"For thou hast possessed my reins: thou hast covered me in my mother's womb."*

> The faculty of balance or equilibrium (Libra, kidneys). see [466](466).

---

### [nakath](/keys/NKTh) - נכת
> "precious things" [2 Kings 20:13](http://biblehub.com/2_kings/20-13.htm): *"And Hezekiah hearkened unto them, and shewed them all the house of his precious things..."*

> The reins and the reproductive organs, both governed by Mars (the adrenals over the kidneys) are indeed "precious things", for with them does the great work succeed. נכתה is the spelling, also in [Isaiah 39:2](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/39-2.htm).

---

### [eseq](/keys/OShQ) - עשק
> Esek. "strife". Name of the well, from a spring of springing [living] water dug by Isaac's servants. [Genesis 26:20](http://biblehub.com/genesis/26-20.htm): *"And the herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaac's herdmen, saying, The water is ours: and he called the name of the well **Esek**; because they strove with him."*

> The "water" of life or consciousness brings peace or strife depending on its balanced use. see Key 2, the High Priestess. Man is "made" through subconsciousness.

---

### [mikedash IHVH](/keys/MQDSh.IHVH) - מקדש יהוה
> The sanctuary of Tetragrammaton. The human body, and especially the Mercury center (adytum) in the brain, and the Egoic or heart center. see [444](444).

---

### [omer naqui](/keys/OMR.NQI) - עמר נקי
> pure wool. A reference to the beard of Macroprosopus (Kether), and to the wool of the lamb (Aries, Mars) which must be purified before it can become the redeemer.

---

### [Nithahiah](/keys/NThHIH) - נתהיה
> According to Godwin, the angle of the 1st quinance of Sagittarius, and angel by day of the 8 of wands, which corresponds to Hod of Atziluth, and the 1st decanate of Sagittarius.

> A variant form of this name is Nilaihah. Davidson says that Ambelain in La kabalah Pratique "list Niliahah as a poet-angel of the order of Dominations. He is invoked by pronouncing any of the divine names along with the 1st verse of Psalm 9. He is in charge of occult sciences, delivers prophecies in rhyme, and exercises influence over wise men who love peace and solitude." [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.207]. Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.48] says this is the angel of 8 of Swords.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [ou](/greek?word=ou) (Gr) - οὐ
not. ([Concordance](https://biblehub.com/greek/ou_3756.htm))

- [Matthew 7:21](https://biblehub.com/text/matthew/7-21.htm): *"**Not** every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven."*
- [Luke 6:43](https://biblehub.com/text/luke/6-43.htm): *"For a good tree bringeth **not** forth corrupt fruit; neither doth a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit."*
- [John 5:30](https://biblehub.com/text/john/5-30.htm): *"I can of mine own self do **nothing**: as I hear, I judge: and my judgment is just; because I seek not mine own will, but the will of the Father which hath sent me."*
- [Romans 1:16](https://biblehub.com/text/romans/1-16.htm): *"For I am **not** ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth; to the Jew first, and also to the Greek."*

---

### See Also:

- [47](47)
- [11](11)
- [2](2)
- [Bible Wheel: 470](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=470)
