## 474 - Four Hundred Seventy-Four
> (2x3x79)

---

### [Da'ath](/keys/DOTh) - דעת
> "Knowledge"; mind, reason. The invisible Sephirah of the Tree of Life. Associated with generation and conception, as the idea of night. (Biblical: "And Adam knew his wife, and she conceived.") Title of the invisible point connecting Chokmah and Binah, seated in the "abyss" at junction of the paths of Gimel and Daleth. Signifies insight. One of the four occult maxims. [Daleth](/keys/D), the door, true magical knowledge opens a door from the outer world of effects and appearances, leading inward to the realm of causes. It is based on creative imagination and is an interior illumination. [Ayin](/keys/O), the eye, one sees, with the inner eye and perceives with the outer sense of sight the true perception of reality in all things. [Tav](/keys/Th), the mark, one experiences the unity of life. see [K.D.L.C.K. p.252]

> Da'ath is particularly knowledge gained by direct personal experience. Located between the 3 Supernals (Kether, Chokmah, and Binah) and the rest of the Tree, it represents the division between two levels of being, and thus may be though of as the Sephirah of Becoming; The aspect of consciousness experienced as "relation." see [346](346), [131](131), [70](70), [581](581), [345](345), [503](503), [84](84). *[The Gematria Notebooks of Paul Foster Case]*

> William Gray considers the residence of Da'ath, the Abyss, to be fought with danger, for to fall into it is to never retrieve one's sanity. The Abyss itself acts as a filter between the Divine triad and the rest of the Sephiroth and:

> *"...all the horrors, loathsomeness, abominations and evils that would be unthinkable in association with God...are swallowed up by the Abyss, where they exist in a state of completely insane chaos pending some ultimate disposal.*

> *"When the fall had occurred and the Sephira Malkuth had been cut off from the Tree by the folds of the dragon, there was added unto the Tree Daath, the Knowledge, as the 11th Sephira, to preserve intact the ten-ness of the Sephiroth. Showing how by that very eating of the Fruit of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil should come the Saving of Mankind, for Da'ath is the priceless gift of Knowledge and Intellect whereby comes Salvation. Wherefore also is 11 the Key Number of the Great Savior's Name (IHShVH = [326](326) = [11](11))* [1972, page 184]. - Allan Bennett

> [Proverbs 3:19-20](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/3-19.htm): *"With wisdom God established the earth, with Understanding he established the heavens, and with his Knowledge, the depths (chaos) were broken up."* It is through Da'ath (Knowledge) that the creative power of the Elohim (emanating from Binah) begins to manifest something from the chaotic nothing. In Qabbala depths are often referred to as the Womb, or Ani in Hebrew. This word is simply a rearrangement of the word Ain, or Nothingness, and therefore would have the same numerical value, [61](61).

> *"In the construction of the Tree of Life, Da'ath is the point at which the circles corresponding to Atziluth and Yetzirah meet. "knowledge", in the Qabalist sense, is the link between the archetypal and the formative planes of being, the synthesis of the former and the initiating principle of the latter. It is curious at least that the number of Da'ath is 474 = [15](15) = [6](6), which is the value of Vav, the letter of Tetragrammaton assigned to Yetzirah, which (in this scheme) proceeds from Da'ath.*

> *"The number 474 moreover yields [112](112) as the multiplication of its digits, and 112 reduces to [4](4), a number mystically equivalent to [10](10) (because 1+2+3+4 = 10), and 10 is the number of Yod, the letter assigned to Atziluth.*

> *"Thus the numeration of Da'ath conceals the idea that it is related especially to Atziluth and Yetzirah."* [Notes of the Tree of Life by PFC]

> *"... Yet another hint is found in the fact that Da'ath is the point of the exact center of the Path of [Gimel](/keys/G). This path corresponds to the High Priestess in the Tarot... The knowledge of the Qabalist is midway between the pillars of light and darkness, between which sits the High Priestess. Nothing could be planer to those with eyes to see!" See meditation of Daleth and notes, Book of Tokens.*

> *"No magical rite is effective unless it be the formal expression of the operators vision. The purpose of all ceremonial is to establish an unbroken flow of knowledge. Now, knowledge must not be confused with information. The Hebrew word for it is דעת, [Da'ath](/keys/DOTh). By attributions to these three letters, understand the work of Da'ath to be the work of Venus (Daleth), Mars (Peh) and Saturn (Ayin). Remember that planets are interior stars and alchemical metals... though conjoined with Saturn in Capricorn, is also the exalted or sublimated Mars.*

> *"Now, Capricorn is the sign associated with the birth of the Redeemer, and in the Rota is the Devil, which is really a symbol for the first Matter. Hence when we read that in Da'ath the secret places shall be lead, we must be obtuse indeed if we suppose this knowledge to be anything to be learned from written or spoken words.*

> *"Mars is action, and Saturn is concretion. Specific actions are indicated, and if you will ask for further light from within, you may discover, perhaps to your surprise, why Capricorn is related to the [26th Path](26) of Renewing Intelligence. Be on guard here. Do not look for symbolic meanings. Look for specific forms of action, and while you do so, remember that the text is concerned with [Guph](/keys/GVP)."* [24th Communication]

---

### [edeth](/keys/ODTh) - דעת
> testimony (within the ark). [Psalm 122:4](http://biblehub.com/psalms/122-4.htm): *"...unto the testimony of Israel, to give thanks unto the name of the Lord."* This word is intimately connected with the center of the Mars-force. The "ark" is the human body.

---

### [chakemoth](/keys/ChKMVTh) - חכמות
> wisdom (plural). knowledge and wisdom are closely related.

---

### [oethed](/keys/OThD) - עתד
> to prepare, make ready. a prerequisite of knowledge.

---

### [othad](/keys/OThD) - עתד
> a ram, a he-goat; a prepared sacrifice. The ram is Aries, symbol of the Mars-force which is sublimated or sacrificed to knowledge by preparation.

---

### [echothi kallah](/keys/AChThI.KLH) - אחתי כלה
> "my sister (my) bride." [Song of Solomon 4:12](http://biblehub.com/songs/4-12.htm): *"A garden enclosed is my sister, my bride: a spring shot up, a fountain sealed."* The "garden" is the perfect state of being which is also the stone. see [53](53).

---

### [zeh-tayom yasha Jehovah](/keys/ZH-HIVM.OShH.IHVH) - זה היום עשה יהוה
> "This is the day which the Lord has made." [Psalm 118:24](http://biblehub.com/psalms/118-24.htm).

---

### See Also:

- [15](15)
- [6](6)
