## 476 - Four Hundred Seventy-Six
> (4x7x17)

### [Saykel Ne'evad](/keys/ShKL.NOBD) - שכל נעבד
> (neobed). Serving (or Administrative) Intelligence. 32nd Path of Tav. Connects the automatic consciousness (Moon) to the field of sensation and embodiment (Earth).

> The power of this path is the full development of the [17th Path](17) of Zain. Concentration and discrimination are used to make sharp distinctions between conscious and subconscious functions, necessary to establish balance in the personality. The possessor of this path directs the inner planetary forces through the central indwelling presence. He perceives the whole universe to be continuous with and inseparable from his body.

> The ego is seen as working as the servant to all human life, and as such, is the greatest of all. He has centered himself in the cosmic heart through practice. He knows that every slightest thought, word and action is part of the administration of cosmic law. He shares in the Life-power's dominion over all things.

> Other meanings of Neobed (serving) are: נעבד to be tilled, be cultivated; to be worshiped; to be dressed, be tanned (of hides); from עבד to be worked, be made to serve, and עבד work, deed. see [126](126), [406](406), [400](400), [331](331), [340](340).

### [kawl-maesawiv](/keys/KL-MOShIV) - כל מעשיו
> all ye his works. [Psalm 103:22](http://biblehub.com/psalms/103-22.htm): *"Bless IHVH, all his works in all places of his dominion..."* Tav is Saturn, to which is attributed the pair of opposites dominion and slavery.

### [malekeosh](/keys/MLQVSh) - מלקוש
> the latter rain (vernal rain); spring rain. Figuratively eloquence.

> [Proverbs 16:15](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/16-15.htm): *"In the light of the king's countenance is life; and his favor is as a cloud of the latter rain."* The King's countenance is to Microprosopus, which is names מלך, [melek](/keys/MLK). "Favor" is רצון, [rawtzon](/keys/RTzVN) or will. see [346](346), [352](352), [1453](1453).

> The dominion of the divine will produces the eloquence of serving; here the greatest of all becomes the servant of all.

### [beth deen](/keys/BITh.DIN) - בית דין
> house of Justice; curia; judicial consistory; court house; court of law. When the law of God is obeyed, then the Lord is in his holy temple (house); the abode of regenerated human personality. see [412](412), [64](64), [1126](1126).

> Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p. 197] gives: domus judici, curia, consistorium iudiciaie, and said by him to refer to Malkuth. In the Zohar the Rabbi Shimeon Ben Johai calls it shekinah, which contains a triumvirate of animal bodies-the face of a lion, the face of a bull and face of an eagle.

### [baythchan](/keys/BIThChVN) - ביתחון
> Angel Lord of the triplicity in the sign Scorpio by day. see [1126](1126).

### [Tzelilimiron](/keys/TzLILIMIRVN) - צלילימירון
> The Clangers, [Qlippoth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Qliphoth) of Gemini.

> [beginning of text missing] here fused into the bestial and divine serpents of life [Nightside of Eden, pp.193-195] This reflects unbalanced discrimination. see [1126](1126). The letters of this name suggest the perverted power of meditation (Tzaddi) alternating between action (Lamed) and influencing will-force (Yod) for personal ends, reversing mental substance (Mem) and creating (Yod) the degeneration of solar force at odds with its purpose (Resh) by the psychic voces of disunity (Vav), frozen in a cycle of reproductive error (Nun).

> Of the root צל which this word begins Fabre D'Olivet writes: *"This root, composed of the final sign united to the directive sign, characterizes a thing whose effect is spread afar. This thing expresses... either noise, or shadow passing though air and void; or void itself containing darkness thence צל every noise that is striking, clear, piercing like brass; every shadow carried, projected a great distance into space; every obscure depth, whose bottom is unknown: metaphorically, a screaming voice; any kind of object extending overhead and making a shade as a canopy, dias, covering, roof, veil; every deep, obscure place, a cavern. The Arabic [word] has evidently the same radical sense as the Hebrew צל, but this root, beside its primitive sense, having also an onomatopoetic sense, has received developments much more extended. According to the first sense, the verb [Arabic word] characterizes the state of that which grows dark being corrupted, of that which imitates the darkness of shadow, which lengthens, gains, as a shadow, etc. According the second sense, it is a prolonged sound, a cry which invokes succor, a prayer, etc. [Arabic word] expresses that which is prolonged indefinely, wanders, disappears, etc."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp. 434-435]

### See Also:

- [17](17)
- [8](8)