## 49 - Forty-Nine
> (7x7). Number of the magic square of Venus.

---

### [Mat](/keys/MT) - מט
> The rod of Aaron. Related to the magical Wand. מ: The Hanged Man, or reversal. ט: the symbol of Fohat (Kundalini) and its direction (strength). see [54](54), [404](404), [43](43), [470](470), [175](175), [1225](1225).

---

### [damah](/keys/DMH) - דמה
its blood. [Leviticus 4:30](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/4-30.htm): *"And the priest shall take of the blood thereof with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and shall pour out all **the blood** thereof at the bottom of the altar."*

---

### [El Chai](/keys/AL-ChI) - אל־חי
> The Living God. Divine name of Yesod, Sphere of the Moon. see [363](363), [80](80).

---

### [Hagiel](/keys/HGIAL) - הגיאל
> Intelligence of Venus. Intelligence of Venus, when Venus enters the signs of Taurus and Libra [Davidson]. This intimates that desire is essential to alchemical congelation and sublimation. see [331](331), [501](501).

---

### [Moab](/keys/MVAB) - מואב
> Moab. from my father. The ancient land of the Dead Sea, and its people. [Genesis 19:37](http://biblehub.com/genesis/19-37.htm): *"And the firstborn bare a son, and called his name Moab: the same is the father of the Moabites unto this day."*

---

### [Chema, Haymah](/keys/ChMA) - חמא
> warmth, heat; fury; fever. To maintain a steady and even heat in the anthanor is a prerequisite of the Great Work. Derived from חם (#[48](48)). Also: hot season. [Egyptian Khem, root of alchemy, the "Egyptian Art."]

---

### [moog](/keys/MVG) - מוג
> solve, dissolve; to melt. One of the two alchemical maxims. also: to cause to melt, melted, soft. see [64](64) (Latin), [103](103).

---

### [ildah](/keys/ILDH) - ילדה
> she bore.

---

### [lidah](/keys/LIDH) - לידה
> A bring forth, birth, nativity, according to Mathers [in Sepher Sephiroth p. 7]. This word does not occur in scripture on in the Hebrew Lexicon.

---

### [gawill](/keys/GVIL) - גויל
> parchment. This suggest the blank page where the "new name" is written, and the "rough ashlar" which is shaped into the "Stone of the Wise."

---

### [gulhab](/keys/GVLChB) - גולחב
> Qlippoth of Geburah. Suggest imbalance of the Mars force. Godwin gives: Golachab, "The Arsonist."

---

### [choleh](/keys/ChVLH) - חולה
> a sick person, patient. The process of transmutation is like coming from sickness into full health.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Lux](/latin?word=Lux) (Lt)
> Light. The source of all manifested life. *"Lux, light, is the actual substance of all material forms. The universally diffused radiance is concentrated into suns, and their world systems, and flames in every galaxy. It penetrates every solid thing and overcomes the subtle... [John] Dee's analysis of LUX into the component parts of a cross has analogues elsewhere amongst occultist, as you probably know. I suspect that Mathers and Westcott, or perhaps Mathers alone, developed it from the hints in Dee s Monas [Hieroglyphic Monad]. Written L.V.X., so that its letters are separated by periods, the letters are then taken as Roman numerals, and their addition is 65.."* [Paul Case, op, cit. p.6] see [116](116), [364](364), [207](207), [73](73), [122](122) (Lt), [620](620), [397](397).

---

### [niger](/latin?word=niger) (Lt)
> Black. the absence of Light. Color of the Black Pillar Boaz. Also refers to the Black Raven, an alchemical symbol of the 1st matter, or unmanifested life. see [126](126), [87](87) (Lt), [998](998).

---

### [rebis](/latin?word=rebis) (Lt)
> *"The Rebis (from the Latin res bina, meaning dual or double matter) is the end product of the alchemical magnum opus or great work."* [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rebis)

> "two-thing." Corinne Heline Writes: *"In this alchemical process, the Gold (Spirit) which is God, and the base metal which is man have been conjoined and man becomes the Living Stone. the Keystone of the Arch in Masonic phraseology. The androgyne consciousness is represented by the Hermetic cypher REBIS, meaning the two things. The alchemical double Mercury bears the same significance. Albert Pike employs the grand climax of Masonic initiations. He writes: For as birth, life, exaction, suffering in fire and death were, as it were, ascribed to the philosopher s stone in black and gloomy colors, and finally resurrection and life in red and other beautiful colors, so the terrestrial stone (man s body) may be compared with the celestial stone (the Body of Christ)."* [Occult Anatomy and the Bible, XII, New Birth Through Regeneration, p. 37]

---

### English Gematria:

- [Reader](/english?word=Reader) *([Fama Intro p.13](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13))*
- [deny'd](/english?word=deny+d) *([Fama Intro p.14](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n14))*

---

### See Also:

- [13](13)
- [4](4)
