## 496 - Four Hundred Ninety-Six
16x31. Σ31 = 496. [496](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/496_(number)) is a [Perfect Number](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Perfect_number), because 1+2+4+8+16+31+62+124+248=496.

> ...the sum of the numbers from 0 to 31. This is by implication the complete extension of the powers represented by אל, attributed to Chesed. אל is 31, and 31 reduces to 4. 10 is the numerical extension of 4, thus the name of the 10th Septhirah is the numerical extension of the name of God attributed to the 4th Sephirah. 31 is also the number of לא, lo, not, or no-thing. Malkuth is the full manifestation of the divine strength which is itself no-thing. *[Gematria PFC]*

---

### [Malkuth](/keys/MLKVTh) - מלכות
> Kingdom. The [Resplendent Intelligence](10) of the 10th center of the Tree of Life. The physical universe. From the root מלך [Melek](/keys/MLK), King. Manifestation or expression of power to rule, derived from the Ego or Christos in Tiphareth. The point at which all the influences which descend from Kether finally converge, and the point from which, on the way of return, man's consciousness begins its ascent to liberation and illumination.

> The fruit of the tree, which holds the seeds of fresh manifestation. The physical plane, seat of גוף [Guph](/keys/GVP), the physical body. Known also as כלה [Kallah](/keys/KLH), the Bride and תורת [Torah](/keys/ThVRTh), the Law. To attain the Kingdom is to regularly listen to the voice of the Hierophant (Vav) and put this knowledge into action through Tav, the Administrative Intelligence, which is Cosmic Consciousness -- a permanent state of mind. Consciousness of Zelator, in Rosicrucian initiation. see [89](89), [90](90), [543](543), [1006](1006), [55](55), [31](31), [564](564), [95](95), [570](570), [1026](1026), [656](656), [676](676).

> *"...מלכות adds to 496, and this last is a perfect number, the idea of perfection is combined with the other ideas associated with 10 in the name of the last Sephirah, inasmuch as the sum of 4, 9 and 6 is 19, the number of [Chavvah](/keys/ChVH) (Eve), the Bride and Mother; and the reduction of 19 is 10. The Kingdom, then, is perfect. Nothing needs to be added, nor anything subtracted. As the Sepher Yetzirah says: "Ten, and not nine; ten, and not eleven."* [13th Communication] see [52](52).

> *"In Malkuth is the power of our Lord and King, אדני מלך, [Adonai Melek](/keys/ADNI.MLK). Yet is Malkuth also כלה, [Kallah](/keys/KLH), the Bride, and מלכה, [Malkah](/keys/MLKH), the Queen. So the Guph which is the embodied Kingdom is the King himself, also the Queen who is his Bride. Now the number of אדני מלך is [155](155), and to this number corresponds also [dode ne-amen](/keys/DVD.NAMN), the faithful friend, for our Lord King is verily that friend. But here you must understand a mystery, for the Kingdom, King, Substance, that is Guph, Queen and Bride are all but ONE, and the ONE is ALL, for is not כלה to be read as הכל, [Hakal](/keys/HKL), the ALL?*

> *"Malkah is written with the letters of המלך, [he-melek](/keys/HMLK), the King, and the King is Tiphareth, yet is תפארת, [Tiphareth](/keys/ThPARTh) or [1081](1081), and the seed of this is 10 which is both Malkuth and Yod...*

> *"What it says plainly is that Malkuth is the synthesis of all the Sephiroth, and that Guph must be understood not only as the human body, but also as the substance from which all bodies are formed. Furthermore, this substance is One, though it is given a masculine Divine name ADNI MLK, and two feminine titles, Kallah and Malkah."* [26th Communication] see [155](155), [55](55), [95](95), [89](89).

> *"In Roman letters corresponding to Hebrew, Malkuth is spelled MLKVTh, and represented by the following Tarot sequence: The Hanged Man (Mem); Justice (Lamed); the Wheel of Fortune (Kaph); The Hierophant (Vav); The World (Tav). This sequence of Tarot Keys gives clear indications as to the doctrine of the first Rosicrucian grade [Zealator]. First comes the Hanged Man, intimating that initiation is a reversal of ordinary conceptions of the meaning of sense-experience, a reversal which includes recognition of man's utter dependence upon the operation of fixed and unchanging laws. Then comes Justice, which its symbolic declaration of that great law of equilibrium which has excited the admiration of sages in every period of human history. Justice is followed by the picture of a turning wheel, one of the most ancient representations of the mechanism of nature, and symbolic expression of the great doctrine of cycles which is one of the fundamentals of practical occultism. After the Wheel of Fortune comes The Hierophant, suggesting that although the reign of law presents itself to our outer sense in mechanical terms, the essence of that law is identical with the essence of ourselves, and has within it always a tendency toward the revelation of hidden things, toward the unraveling of mysteries, toward the extension of light. At the end of the series of Keys is The World, testifying that, although there be few who see it, the Rosicrucian presentation of the reign of law declares that form follows form in rhythmic sequence, that life understood is a thing of joy, that the universe is truly a dance of life and not a dance of death."* [True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p. 162]

---

### [Shiqutz](/keys/ShQVTz) - שקוץ
> Disgusting, filthy, an abomination, an idol ("the detestable thing") [[Daniel 12:11]](http://biblehub.com/daniel/12-11.htm). Referring to Malkuth, the sphere of physical sensation when it is apparently separated from the Sephiroth above. Malkuth is the lowest and most external Sephirah. When man's consciousness is fixed on Malkuth, to the exclusion of higher, more interior objects of perception, he is an idolater. For in Malkuth are but the projected images of inner states of being; and to worship the image, to trust in appearances, is idolatry. *[Gematria PFC]*

---

### [Leviathan](/keys/LVIThN) - לויתן
> The dark serpent, Dragon, the great serpent of the darkness, of the deep -- the Grerat Devourer. Used as a symbol for Egypt [[Psalm 74:14](http://biblehub.com/psalms/74-14.htm), [Isaiah 27:1](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/27-1.htm)]. in these two passages Leviathan is a symbol of a symbol. Egypt itself represents the darkness of the physical plane, and the earth as the great grave which swallows generation after generation of human bodies. He is a symbol fo the Cosmic Antagonist; he is the physical plane as it appears to the ignorant. Yet when we understand this plane, the Dark Antagonist is seen to be the perfect order of the Kingdom. Without spiritual understanding and knowledge that there are realities beyond the physical plane, Malkuth, the sphere of the physical sensation behind the elemental forces, is interpreted too grossly. This misinterpretation, when a personality is extremely receptive to the thoughts and errors of others, can lead to the self un-doing. Properly understood, the dark antagonist is seen to be the perfect order, or kingdom. In India the name for the sign Capricorn (Ayin) is Makara (Dragon or sea-monster), closely related to Leviathan. In Sanskrit its literal meaning is "five-handed" or "five-sided," related to the pentagram, one of the symbols for Mars (Exalted in Capricorn, where the world-savior is born). Related to Tiamat of Babylonian mythology. In Hebrew folklore Leviathan was supposed to be the cause of eclipses of the sun and moon by throwing its fold around them. [Job 41:1](http://biblehub.com/job/41-1.htm). see [708](708), [358](358), [130](130), [854](854). *[Gematria PFC]*

> Paul Case writes: *"Leviathan is the sea monster mentioned in Job: 'Canst thou draw out Leviathan with a hook?' The occult meaning of this should be clear, for Tzaddi is the fish-hook, and is associated with meditation, and the sea is Binah, also the great ocean of the universal subconsciousness. Leviathan is the great ocean of power of subconsciousness, and the question: 'Can you draw out the power of Malkuth by the power of meditation?' is the interpretation."* [Gematria of the Letter Names].

> [beginning of text missing] *"...the solar or spiritual body. the cabin of fishes would seen to designate the skull... containing the brain where the currents of the solar force focus for regenerative force situated in the brain? Is the meaning of this verse. (9) "Lay thine hand upon him, remember the battle, do no more.' These words indicate that Leviathan is a conquered or governed force; indeed, Leviathan is Behemoth (453), governed and augmented. The battle or test referred to is supreme and terrible. Plato says in the Phaedo: "But whenever one is fresh from those mysteries 'behold beauty of face and form 'he first of all feels a shuddering chill, and there creep over him some of those terrors that assailed him in that dire struggle.'*

> *In the Elder Edda, that voice of the ancient religions of the north, this degree of initiation is described as follows: 'comes forth the glorious offspring of earth, Thor, to strive with the glistening serpent... lone serpent-slaver, and shield of men, he baited his hook with the head of the ox, and he whom the gods hate gaped ?there? the girdle lying all lands beneath then Thor drew mightily-swift in doing- the poison-glistening snake to the side. His hammer he lifted and struck from on high the fearful head... moaned the wild monster, the rocks all rumbled, the ancient earth shrank into itself. Then sank the serpent down in the deep! (10) 'None is so fierce that dare stir him up: who then is able to stands before me, the architect of the universe; and before my manifestation the super solar force? (11) 'Who has prevented me, that I should repay him?' Repay is used here in the Hebrew with the sense of 'give an equivalent for'. What has prevented the substitution of the super solar force for the solar force, of immortality for mortality.*

> *Part II. At this point the allegory changes in character. Hitherto Leviathan or the initiatory force has been described figuratively and some what ambiguously. Henceforward the writer intends to make a more explicit and unmistakable revelation of his meaning. (12) "I will not conceal his parts, nor his power, nor his comely proportion.' (13) 'Who can strip off his over garment?' The outer garment of Leviathan is the voltage of solar force manifesting in the sympathetic nervous is system. Who can replace this by the voltage necessarily to open and perfect the centers of the cerbero-spinal system? (13) 'Or who can come to ??? his double bridle?' After passing through the centers of the sympathetic nervous system, the positive and negative currents of solar force meet in the forehead where, as it were, their balance registers; to that at this degree of evolution the initiate can sense whether the balance is perfect, or whether positive or negative current predominates. This power to sense and govern the currents is here called the double bridle of Leviathan. And the adept kings of Egypt bore upon their foreheads the Uraeus, or sacred serpent, emblem of the bridle, to signify that they had achieved this power. Hence 'the Chaldee paraphrase understands' Leviathan that piercing serpent to refer to Pharaoh.' [Isaiah 27:1] Leviathan is also though to personify the king of Egypt in Psalm 74:14 'Thou brakes the heads of Leviathan in pieces, and gives him to be meat to the people inhabiting the wilderness,' meaning that Moses transmitted as meat to the children of Israel knowledge of the serpent fire or solar force, 'hitherto the prerogative of Egypt's adepts kings and their priest. (15) 'His scales are his ?pride?, shut up together as with a close seal'. The word translated scales has the literal meaning in Hebrew of* [text ends]

---

### [eth hamem](/keys/ATh.HMIM) - את המים
> essence of the waters. See [598](598). [Genesis 1:22](https://biblehub.com/genesis/1-22.htm): *"And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth."*

---

### [eth ha-melek](/keys/ATh.HMLK) - את המלך
> essence of the king.

---

### [tzeror](/keys/TzRVR) - צרור
> a small bundle; a little stone, pebble; package, bag, pouch.

> *"צרור, a small bundle, refers to the truth that the powers of the kingdom are concentrated in a small point, the center of each man's experience. For it is said that Malkuth is in Kether and Kether in Malkuth, or that the kingdom, or manifestation of the Life-power is present in the primal will, and the primal will is present also in the kingdom. The small point, one of the names for Kether, represents the same though as צרור, a small bundle. it is one of the main sign-posts pointing to the truth that the object of the practical occultist quest is the central reality of his personality which is identical with the primal will. It is the greatest of the great, yet it is also the smallest of the small. It is the cause of all activity, and yet it is perpetually at rest. It expands through out infinity, yet is also focused in a single point."* [Gematria of the Ten Sephiroth]

---

### [tzahroor](/keys/TzRVR) - צרור
> bound up, tied; preserved; pebble. The physical plane must be understood as the plane wherein forces from higher levels are bound up or preserved in physical form.

---

### [Ehben Beth-el](/keys/ABN.BITh-AL) - אבן בית אל
> The stone of God's House. This is the stone described in the story of Jacob's dream. [Genesis 28:11](http://biblehub.com/genesis/28-11.htm), [11:19](http://biblehub.com/genesis/11-19.htm). Tradition identifies it with the stone in the British coronation chair, now in Westminster abbey. Beth-el is the "house of the Lord". Consciousness of the Lord's house is awareness of the indwelling presence in physical forms. see [443](443).

> Note: Jacob named the place of his dream ההוא בית אל, [he-hua bethal](/keys/HHVA.BITh.AL) which may be surmised as being "He, the house of El". It is translated "that" in the Jewish translation. Yet HVA is a name of God (Kether). see [460](460).

---

### [ha-dam hu ha-nefesh](/keys/HDM.HVA.HNPSh) - הדם הוא הנפש
> blood is the life. [Deuteronomy 12:23](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/12-23.htm). Note that in this passage NPSh is the same animal consciousness, which has its special seat in Yesod. This passage goes on to say *"... thou shall pour it [blood] upon the earth as water."* The water of consciousness is working to raise lower forms to higher. There are important alchemical consideration: i.e. occult properties of the blood. see [44](44).

---

### [chahzooth layelah](/keys/ChZVTh.LILH) - חזות לילה
> night vision, night revelation. medianox. חזות, [chazuth](/keys/ChZVTh) also means 'covenant". see [Key 18](18).

---

### [kar or](/keys/KR.OVR) - כר עור
> Lamb skin. A Mason's apron is lambskin. see [220](220).

---

### [sholam yehiyeh lah-kam](/keys/ShLVM.IHIH.LKM) - שלום יהיה לכם
> Ye will have peace. [Jeremiah 4:10](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/4-10.htm). Peace (shalom) comes when "the kingdom of spirit is embodied in my flesh." (and blood).

---

### [ve-thummin](/keys/VThMIM) - ותמים
> "and perfections". The affirmation of the perfect cosmic order, proceeding form the divine self-impartation or beneficence represented by Chesed or Jupiter, and manifested in Malkuth.

---

### [eth-Mehujael](/keys/ATh-MChVIAL) - את־מחויאל
Mehujael, great-grandson of Cain. [Genesis 4:18](https://biblehub.com/genesis/4-18.htm): *"And unto Enoch was born Irad: and Irad begat Mehujael: and Mehujael begat Methusael: and Methusael begat Lamech."*

---

### [eth-kol-hacheleb](/keys/ATh-KL-HChLB) - את־כל־החלב
ALL [THE FAT](/keys/HChLB). see [45](45), [446](446), [452](452), [458](458).

- [Exodus 29:13](https://biblehub.com/exodus/29-13.htm): *""*
- [Leviticus 8:16](https://biblehub.com/leviticus/8-16.htm): *""*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [monogenohs](/greek?word=monogenhs) (Gr) - μονογενὴς
> one-begotten; alone-born. Closely refers to Jesus. see [888](888).

---

### [Pater, filius, spiritus sanctus, divina natura, Deus](/latin?word=Pater+filius+spiritus+sanctus+divina+natura+Deus) (Lt)
> Father, Son, Holy Spirit, Divine Nature, God [Secret Symbols page 30]. These words are brought together as the text explaining a diagram. this diagram is a radiant, golden circle, enclosing a down-pointing equilateral triangle inside the triangle is written the word Deus. Above the triangle, in the circle, are the words Divina Natura. Outside the circle, the three points of the triangle are the words: Pater, at the left upper point, filius, at the right upper point, and spiritua sanctus at the lower point.

### See Also:

- [19](19)
- [10](10)
- [1](1)
- [Bible Wheel: 496](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=496)
