## 497 - Four Hundred Ninety-Seven
> [7](7)x[71](71)

---

### [melaktow](/keys/MLAKThV) - מלאכתו
> His Work. see [466](466), [513](513), [67](67). The connection between work and hands should be apparent; this the work of discrimination (Gemini, Key 6) and the "hand" is also Yod.

> [Genesis 2:2](https://biblehub.com/genesis/2-2.htm): *"And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made."*

---

### [towtze](/keys/ThVTzA) - תוצא
Bring forth. [Genesis 1:24](https://biblehub.com/genesis/1-24.htm): *"And God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after his kind: and it was so."*

---

### [teomim](/keys/ThAVMIM) - תאומים
> Twins; Gemini. It connects the tribe of Simeon, not only because in [Genesis 49:5](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-5.htm) Simeon and Levi are couple together, but also because the Talmud says the standard of Simeon bore a picture of the city of Shechem. This was a Rebus, referring to the basic meaning of the word שכם, "shoulders," or "shoulder-blades." According to astrology, Gemini, governs the shoulders. The twins, ascribed to זין, are the "two apples" of the 7th conformation of the bread of Macroprospus. Zain connects בינה to תפארת and זין, [67](67) = בינה. The 2 apples equal תפוחי = מקור מים חיים, which add to [504](504), the value of דרש, "to seek". The two apples are the fountain of the Water of Life. They are correctly described as twins. [Din](/keys/DIN), דין, and [Doni](/keys/DNI), דני, are the twin Intelligences. see [64](64), I.R.Q. ([408](408) and [238](238)), which on meditation should serve to identify them.

> [Genesis 38:27](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-5.htm) *"And it came to pass in the time of her travail, that, behold, twins were in her womb."*

---

### [omonath](/keys/AMVNTh) - אמונת
> trade, handicraft (later Hebrew). Gemini rules the hands, and is connected with manual dexterity. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.123] links this word to Binah, when it has the meaning of firmness (firmitatis), and with Malkuth, when it pertains to faith (fides). He also translates it as truth (veritas).

---

### [aomanth](/keys/AVMNTh) - אמונת
> Nurse or nutrix, according to Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.57], who links this word to AMNTh, which as the same meaning. It is applied to Malkuth because it makes all things grow, and also the Binah as Naomi was thus called by Ruth, for Naomi is Binah as Ruth is in Malkuth. see [491](491).

---

### See Also:

- [20](20)
- [2](2)
- [Bible Wheel: 497](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=497)
