## 5 - Five

> (prime). The Pentalpha. 5 is the number of adaptation, adjustment and self. The special human expression of the Life-power acts by adaptation. Thus 5 is the number of Man... it is Man, and Man only who can achieve the full flower of self. This great attainment cannot be accomplished by the sub-human and subconscious levels of being. These lower levels are mere averages within the amorphous plasma, or primordial stuff in which the expanding roots of self are planted and from which the full bloom of the self (Ego) emerges. Names for the number 5: see 64, 92, 216, 1200. *[The Gematria Notebooks of Paul Foster Case]*

> *I recognize the manifestation of the Undeviating Justice in all the circumstances of my life. [Pattern on the Trestleboard]*

### Mediation

- Mediation: an idea suggested by the fact that 5 is the middle term in the series of signs from 1 to 9
- adaptation
- intervention
- adjustment
- hence, Justice
- accomodation
- reconciliation
- result of classifying activities symbolized by subconscious elaboration of these classifications and the formation of deductions therefrom. Projected into the field of self-conscious awareness, these deductions are whare are termed **Intuitions.**

### [Geburah](/keys/GBVRH) - גבורה
[The Fifth Sephirah](216)

### [The Fifth Path](/keys/GBVRH)
> *"The fifth path (Pachad, Geburah or Deen, the fifth Sephirah) is called the [Radical Intelligence](/keys/ShKL.NShRSh). It is so called because it is the very substance of Unity, and is within the substance of that Binah which itself emanates from within the depths (literally, "from within the enclosure") of the Primordial Wisdom."* [The Book of Formation]. see [850](850), [1200](1200)

### [Key 5: Hierophant](/keys/V)

- vav: nail or hook (ו)
- Intuition
- Triumphant and Eternal Intelligence
- Taurus
- Hearing

### [Heh](/keys/H) (ה)
Window. See [10](10), [The Fifteenth Path](15)

> Fifth letter of the Hebrew alphabet. Connected with the idea of meditation, the pentagram, the function of [Binah](67) in creation. also with vision, reason, observation which lead to definitions. *[Gematria PFC]*

> *The Heh looks like a lobby with three walls, but with one side completely open. This indicates that God allows man free choice. He is free to obey or disobey God's will, but when he chooses to leave the safety of the Torah's spiritual and moral boundries, he loses his foothold and slips, as it were, through the open space of the Heh into the abyss...however, Heh symbolizes God's readiness to forgive...A small opening is left in the top left leg of the Heh symbolizing that a space always remians through which a repentant sinner can return. [The Wisdom of the Hebrew Alphabet, Rabbi Munk]*

> *E. HE. This character is the symbol of universal life. It represents the breath of man, air, spirit, Soul; that which is animating; vivifying [Note the 1st Heh in IHVH is attributed to Binah, the creative world, the 2nd to Assiah, the material world]. As grammatical sign, it expresses Life and the abstract idea of being. It is, in the Hebrew tongue of great use as article. [Fabre D'Olivet, The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.326-327]*

> *Heh DETERMINATIVE ARTICLE. It determines the noun; that is to say, that it draws the objective which it designates from a mass of similar objects and gives it a local existence. [i.e. Aries the Constituting Intelligence]. Derived from the sign Heh, which contains the ideas of universal life, it presents itself under several acceptations as article. By the first, it points out simply the noun that it modifies and rendered by the corresponding articles the, this, that, there, those: by the second, it expresses a relation of dependence or division, and is translated of the; of this, of that, of these, of those: by the third, it adds to the noun before which it is placed, only an emphatic meaning, a sort of exclamation accent. In this last acceptation, it is placed indifferently at the beginning or at the end of words and is joined with the greater part of the other articles without being harmful to their movement. Therefore call it Empirical article and when I translate it which I rarely do lacking means, I render it by o! oh! ah! or simply by the exclamation point (!). [The Hebrew Tongue restored pp.111-12].*

### [babah](/keys/BBA) - בבא
> Door, gate, division, section (of an argument, exposition, or literary composition). May also be read as Be-Bag: "In time to come, in the future." A verbal symbol of transition from one state to another. Also of orderly classification, symbolized by Heh as the definite article. *[Gematria PFC]*

### [gab](/keys/GB) - גב
> Back; upper surface of anything; mound, the rim of a wheel, the vault of an arch; a hill or hillock. Whatever supports or sustains as a table supports objects laid thereon. The idea of something hollowed out, closely allied to all Qabalistic notions of the work of creation and specialization. *[Gematria PFC]*

> Fabre D'Olivet gives: *"the original sign united by contraction to the root AB, symbol of every fruitification, develops, in general, the idea of a thing placed or coming under another thing. GB a boss, an excrescence, a protuberance; a knoll, the back, everything convex. GB or GVB, a grasshopper." [The Hebrew tongue restored. Page 210].*

### [da](/keys/DA) - דא
> This. A pronoun. It is a meshnaic, or Talmudic word, of Aramaic origin. In the Hebrew dictionary the asterisk is used to indicate this fact. It is an aramaic word in origin. 5 is considered to be the number of man. Man is DA, "this." ROOT: the sign of natural abundance and division. *[Gematria PFC]*

### [ade](/keys/AD) - אד
> fog, vapor, mist, to cover, to envelop. *[Genesis 2:6](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-6.htm), "But a mist went up from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground."* Formed from the first two letters of Adam. it relates to the occult truth that the physical organism is something precipitated from, or condensed from a primary substance. see [55](55), [45](45). Masters of wisdom know how to dissolve their physical vehicles into a "Mist," as did Jesus at his "Ascension," at which time "A cloud received him out of their sight." Qabalist associate this mist with the Malkuth. see [14](14), [41](41), [104](104), [72](72), [86](86), [158](158).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"This root, composed of the signs of power and of physical divisibility, indicates every distinct, single object, taken from the many. The arabic, ان, in an abstract manner and as adverbial relation, expresses a temporal point, a determined epoch: When, whilst, whereas. אד, [Ade](/keys/AD), that which emanates from a thing: the power of divinity relative unity, an emanation; a smoking fire brand." [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, page 289].*

### [awbab](/keys/ABB) - אבב
> to blossom, to bear fruit; to shine. See Book of Tokens under Heh.

### [agee](/keys/AGA) - אגא
> fugitive, to flee. The natural man does seem to be a fugitive.

### [bag](/keys/BG) - בג
> food. Persian origin.

