## 502 - Five Hundred Two
> (2x251)

---

### [be-kaw](/keys/BKf) - בך
> in thee, with thee. (Kaph = 500). [Genesis 48:20](http://biblehub.com/genesis/48-20.htm): *"And he [Jacob] blessed them that day and said, In your [in thee] name will Israel pronounce the blessing: May God make you like Ephraim and Manasseh: so he put Ephraim ahead of Manasseh."* see [22](22), [182](182), [541](541). Ephraim ([331](331)) corresponds to Taurus and alchemical fixation; Manasseh ([395](395)) corresponds to Aquarius and alchemical dissolution.

---

### [bawtahq](/keys/BThQ) - בתק
> to cut asunder, to thrust through. [Ezekiel 16:40](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/16-40.htm) "They shall also bring up a company against thee, and they shall stone thee with stones, and thrust thee through [VBThQVK] with their swords." Note that 502 reduces to 7, the value of Zain, the sword of discrimination. see 7, 67.

---

### [biser](/keys/BShR) - בשר
> to bear or bring good tidings. [Isaiah 40:27](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/40-27.htm) *"The first shall say to Zion, behold, behold them: and I will give to Jerusalem one that brings good tidings."*

Also: **[bawsar](/keys/BShR)**, בשר, flesh, meat; kindred; pulp of fruit.

> - [1 Chronicles 11:1](http://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/11-1.htm): *"Then all Israel gathered themselves to David unto Hebron, saying, behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh."* see [14](14), [685](685), [783](783).
> - Also in [Genesis 2:21](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-21.htm) *"So the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept; and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the place with flesh in its stead."*

> This word is related to the alchemical metal Iron. The Aesch Mezareph [III, p.24] says: "And this is that mystical thing, which is written [Daniel 7:5](http://biblehub.com/daniel/7-5.htm) *"And behold another beast, a second like unto a bear, stood on its one side, and it had three ribs standing out in his mouth, between his teeth; and thus they said unto it, 'arise, eat much flesh.'" The meaning is, that in order t constitute the metallic kingdom, in the second place, iron is to be taken; in whose mouth or opening (which comes to pass in an earthen vessel) a three-fold scoria is trust out, from within its whitish nature. Let him eat batsar, i.e. flesh, whose lesser number is 7 [[502](502) > 5 + 2 = 7], that is puk [PVK, [106](106) > 7], that is stibium [i.e. antimony], whose lesser number is like manner 7. And indeed much flesh, because the proportion of this, is greater than of that; and indeed such a proportion as puk, that is [106](106), bears to barzel [239](239); such shall be the proportions of iron to antimony [i.e. three must be nearly two and a half times as much antinomy as iron]. But understand the flesh of the lion, which is the first animal; whose eagles wings, and so much as is very volatile in him, shall be drawn out, and it shall be lifted up, and by purifying be separated from its earth or scoria: and it will stand on its feet; that is, shall be its consistency, in a cone; like a man erect and with a shining countenance; like Moses. For Enos [ANSh] and Moses [MVShH] in full writing by gematria each give [351](351). And the heart of iron [for the heart leb [LB] and iron barzel [BRZL, [239](239)] in their least number both give 5], (mineral) i.e. the Tiphareth of man mineral shall be given to."*

> Fabre D'Olivet renders the verse: *"And-he-caused-to-fall, IHOAH, HE-the-Gods, a sympathetic slumber (649) (mysterious and deep) upon Adam (collective man) who slept: and-he-broke-off one ofthe- involutions (that sheltered him) and-he-covered-with-care (he colored) with-shape and-corporeal-beauty the weakness (inferiority) of-her."*

> He comments: *"BShR, shape and corporally-beauty... The word BShR demands also all of our attention... seeing that the Hellenist translators, always restricted to the material meaning, have rendered it by σαp [361], an ignoble word which is Saint Jerome has copied in 'caro', the flesh. Now SR or ShVR is a Hebraic root which contains in itself all ideas of movement toward consistency, corporeity, elementary form and physical force, as is sufficiently denoted by the signs of which it is composed. The sign of interior activity Beth, governs this same root, and constitutes the verb BShVR which always signifies to inform; to announce a thing, to bring glad tidings; as is proved by the Arabic [word], which adds to this signification, that of showing a pleasant physiognomy, and of pleasing by its beauty: moreover the word [Arabic word], in the latter tongue, is always applied to physical beauty. Now, if the Hebraic word, BShR designates the flesh, among the vulgar, it has been only by a shocking abuse, and by a continuation of that unfortunate inclination with the Jews has of restricting and materializing everything. It signified first, form, configuration, exterior appearance, corporeal beauty, animal substance. The Samaritan version and the Chaldaic targum use the analogous word xxx or BSR. It is difficult to say today what meaning the Samaritans attached to this word on account of the few documents which remain to us in their tongue; but we cannot doubt that the Chaldeans deduced from it all ideas relative to exterior forms, ideas more or less agreeable according to the point of view under which they considered these forms. Thus, for example, they understood by the nominal BSR the action of informing, announcing, evangelizing, preaching, scrutinizing, disdaining, scorning etc."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp.89-90]

> [beginning of text missing] *"...more general and spiritual. In fact, the same word in Arabic (which is closely akin to Hebrew) becomes practically a synonym for 'beauty'. The word must also have had something of that meaning in Hebrew, to account for the fanciful Hebrew allegorical story of Adam 'falling in love' with Aisha 'at first sight.'"* [The Unknown god, pp. 164-165]

> The Zohar [I:28A, 48B] comments: *"The words 'and the Lord God built the side', can also be applied to Moses, insofar as he is built from the side of Chesed (kindness). 'And Moses both were combined. This time bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. This is said of the shekinah, the betrothed maiden, by the central column, as though to say, 'I know that this is bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh; so this of a surety shall be called woman, from the supernal realm, which is mother, for she was taken from the realm of the father, which is Yod.' And as with the central column, so with Moses below. At that time every Israelite will find his twin soul... (p.108). And the Lord God built (vayiven) the side which he had taken from the man, etc. Said Rabbi Simeon: 'It is written, 'God understands the way thereof and he knows the place thereof'( [Job 28:23](http://biblehub.com/job/28-23.htm)). This verse may be taken in may ways. One is that the word 'understood' (hevin) has the same sense as vayiven in the second chapter of Genesis. Hence the 'side' here is the oral law, which forms a 'way' as it is written 'who makes a way in the sea' ([Isaiah 43:16](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/43-16.htm)). Similarly, 'place' here can be interpreted as written law, which is a source of knowledge the double name 'Lord God' is used to show that it was competed in all details. Hence it is called both Chokmah (wisdom) and Binah (understanding). 'The side' (zela) is the unclear mirror, as it is written 'they rejoiced at my halting (be-zal'l) and gathered together' ([Psalm 35:15](http://biblehub.com/psalms/35-15.htm)). 'Which he took from the man': because the oral law issued from the written Torah, into a woman: to be linked with the flame of the left side, because the Torah was given from the side of Geburah. Further, Ishah (woman) may be analyzed into ASh-H (Fire of Heh), signifying the union of the two."* (pp.153-154).

---

### [shawbahr](/keys/ShBR) - שבר
> to break, destroy, tear down, mangle, quench.

> - [Isaiah 42:3](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/42-3.htm): *"A bruised reed shall he not break, and a flickering lamp he shall not extinguish; he shall truly bring forth judgement."*
> -  And in [Psalm 69:20](http://biblehub.com/psalms/69-20.htm): *"O thou, hear my broken heart and bind it; I looked for some to take pity, but there was none; and for comfortors, but I found none."*

---

### [veth-kol-hacheleb](/keys/ATh-KL-HChLB) - את־כל־החלב
AND ALL [THE FAT](/keys/HChLB). see [45](45), [95](95), [446](446), [452](452), [496](496).

- [Leviticus 3:3](https://biblehub.com/leviticus/3-3.htm): *"And he shall offer of the sacrifice of the peace offering an offering made by fire unto the LORD; the fat that covereth the inwards, **and all the fat** that is upon the inwards"*
- [Leviticus 3:9](https://biblehub.com/leviticus/3-9.htm): *"And he shall offer of the sacrifice of the peace offering an offering made by fire unto the LORD; the fat thereof, and the whole rump, it shall he take off hard by the backbone; and the fat that covereth the inwards, **and all the fat** that is upon the inwards"*
- [Leviticus 3:14](https://biblehub.com/leviticus/3-14.htm): *"And he shall offer thereof his offering, even an offering made by fire unto the LORD; the fat that covereth the inwards, **and all the fat** that is upon the inwards"*
- [Leviticus 4:8](https://biblehub.com/leviticus/4-8.htm): *"And he shall take off from it all the fat of the bullock for the sin offering; the fat that covereth the inwards, **and all the fat** that is upon the inwards"*

---

### See Also:

- [52](52)
- [7](7)
- [Bible Wheel: 502](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=502)
