## 503 - Five Hundred Three
> (prime)

---

### [Beth-ha-Elohim](/keys/BITh.HALHIM) - בית האלהים
> The House of God. An ancient title of [Key 16](16). [Beth](/keys/BITh) (בית) is the [12th Path](12) descending from Kether to Binah. האלהים adds to [91](91), the number of אמן, [Amen](/keys/AMN). The word Elohim itself is the divine name attributed to Binah. 

> In [1 Corinthians 6:19](http://biblehub.com/1_corinthians/6-19.htm), the Tower of [Key 16](16) may be regarded as a symbol for the human body. It is made of clay bricks and the Hebrew for brick is [Levanah](/keys/LBNH) (Moon, 87), designated to [Yesod](80), associated with the reproductive organs of the Grand Man (Tree of Life). see [91](91), [899](899), [412](412).

---

### [rawgash](/keys/RGSh) - רגש
> to rage, to be violent; to come together, to assemble (as a mob). This last meaning, though it applies more particularly to an angry, or even riotous assemblage, is closely related to the Greek original for our word "church, " for ekklesia means "an assembly, a congregation." Perhaps the connection is even closer than appears at first, for the history of religion makes it only too clear that churches have on many occasions been scenes of violence and of unseemly ebullitions of the mob spirit. The underlying quality of group consciousness is emotional unity-mob spirit can erupt into violence as well as harmony. see [294](294).

---

### [gawrash](/keys/GRSh) - גרש
> to thrust, cast out; to expel, to put forth fruit. Directly related to the Mars-force attributed to Key 16 and the letter Peh. It is the active principle in reproduction (Mars presides over the fertility of the fields and herds "to put forth fruit", and lighting was supposed to make fields fertile.) As a noun, GRSh "a fruit, a product of the earth, produce." Gimel is the letter of the Moon, Resh of the Sun and Shin the Hindu Prana, the alchemical Fire and Quintessence. It symbolizes that most precious fruit, the stone of the Wise (ABN), compounded by the moon, sun and Fire from elements composing the Earth. see [703](703).

> Mathers in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.50] says this is the cup of Stolistes. [See figure in Sepher Sephiroth.]

---

### [yechavah da'ath](/keys/IChVH.DOTh) - יחוה דעת
> reveals or displays forth knowledge. [Psalm 19:2](http://biblehub.com/psalms/19-2.htm): *"Day after day they pour forth speech; night after night they display knowledge."*

> This is directly associated with Peh, the mouth as the organ of Speech. Note that "Night" is the name for darkness -- Binah the mother. The womb of night brings froth the day. Night is associated with generation and reproduction; and the Hebrew word da'ath is know to mean often, if not primarily, what the Bible intimates when it says, *"And Adam knew his wife, and she conceived."* see [84](84), [474](474), [683](683), [688](688), [475](475), [1163](1163).

The reason why Night "showeth knowledge" is because the stars are revealed during the night, and it is their "knowledge" which is revealed at night, particularly during conception of new life.

---

### [ehben ha-zoheleth](/keys/ABN.HZChLTh) - אבן הזחלת
> stone of the serpent.

---

### [vethutza](/keys/VThVTzA) - ותוצא
> and brought forth, "and-she[the land]-produced." [Genesis 1:12](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-12.htm): *"The land produced vegetation: plants bearing seed according to their kinds and trees bearing fruit with seed in it acccording to their kinds. And God saw that it was good."*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"and-it-did-shoot-out.... It is the verb יצוא, to come forth, to proceed, to be born, used according to the excitive form, in future tense made past by the convertible sign.*

> *"I beg the reader to observe here again this hieroglyphic expression. God speaks in the future and his expression repeated, is turned suddenly to the past. Let us examine this important verb and proceed to the analysis of its elements. The first which offers itself is the sign Tzaddi, expressing every terminative movement, every conclusion, every end. its proper and natural place is at the end of words: thence the roots אץ or הץ, in Arabic [word] containing every idea of corporeal bourns and limits, of repressing and concluding force, or term.*

> *"But if, instead of terminating the words, the sign begins them; then, far from arresting the forms, it pushes them, the contrary, toward the goal of which it is itself the symbol: thence, the opposed roots צא, in Syriac... and in Arabic..., whose idea is, leaving the bourns, breaking the shackles of the body, coming outside, being born. It is from this last root, verbalized by the initial adjunction Yod, that the verb which is the subject of this note, is derived. It signifies to appear, to come outside by a movement of propagation, as is demonstrated unquestionable, by the substantive nouns which are derived therefrom, ציא a son, and צאצא a numerous progeny."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp.43-44](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/42)]

---

### [sheger](/keys/ShGR) - שגר
> what is brought forth, increase (of cattle). [Exodus 13:12](http://biblehub.com/exodus/13-12.htm): *"You shall set apart to the Lord every first-born that opens the womb and every firstling that comes forth of the animals that you have; the males shall be the Lord's."*

> Written שגר in [Deuteronomy 7:13](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/7-13.htm): *"And he will love you and bless you and multiply you, he will also bless the fruit of you womb and the fruit of your land, your grain and your wine and you oil. The increase of your cattle and the flocks of your sheep, in the land which he swore to your fathers to give you."*

---

### See Also:

- [53](53)
- [8](8)
