## 508 - Five Hundred Eight
> (4x127)

---

### [ha-regash](/keys/HRGSh) - הרגש
> sensible or disposing, feeling, sentiment.  The adjective ha-regash is from a noun signifying feeling or sensation. Stenring translates the title of this path as "Sensible or Disposing Intelligence." The adjective ha-regash is derived from a verbal root meaning to rage, to be violently agitated. One can see the connection between the letter-name Zain, sword, and the notion of violent activity.  The intelligence of Zain (sword), The 17th path of wisdom, linking Binah and Tiphareth on the Tree. Heh, "the" stands for the Mars- force which rules Aries, represented by the Emperor, and Heh of IHVH is particularly assigned to Binah. Binah particularizes, sets up distinction, limitations and boundaries, and is the field of specialization.  Resh is attributed to the sun and to regeneration (Key 19). Gimel is the letter of the Moon. Shin represents the element Fire and Spirit of God (Key 20 - the Perpetual Intelligence). It is the Quintessence, symbolized by the 8-spoked wheel. Thus HRGSh may be read "The (Heh) Sun (Resh), Moon (Gimel) and Fire (Shin)," or alchemical as "The (Heh) Gold (Resh), Silver (Gimel) and the Quintessence (Shin)." see [858](858), [513](513).

---

### [Sekhel Netzachi](/keys/ShKL.NTzChI) - שכל נצחי
> Triumphant or Eternal Intelligence. Title of Vav. Connects the Life-force of Chokmah, with the source of cosmic memory in Chesed gives awareness of Victorious quality to the Life-power. Because of its freedom from all limitations of time. Associated with faculty of Intuition. Right use of recollection may consciously unite personal memory with that of the Life-power. The message of the inner voice has to do with the mystery of the divine radiance, termed "Glory". see [32](32), [158](158), [12](12), [177](177), [53](53), [122](122).

> "... the next path, that of Vav joins wisdom to mercy. For when creatures begin to exist, mercy becomes active. This is the passage of wisdom, Chokmah, into the self-impartation of the divine spirit though the self-contemplation of his or its limitless possibilities as an eternal spirit of life." [32 Paths] "I am the eternal intelligence, triumphing over all changes of name and form, sowing all problems of substance in justice, love and truth." [Meditations of the Paths of Wisdom].

---

### [shachar](/keys/ShChR) - שחר
> dawn.

---

### [kawl-nephesh ha-chaiah](/keys/KL-NPSh.HChIH) - כל־נפש החיה
> "all the living creatures" [Genesis 1:21](https://biblehub.com/genesis/1-21.htm): *"And God created... every living creature that moves... and... saw that it was Good."* The "glory" of divine creativity disposes all living creatures towards the highest good. [The small raised Heh is from Magic's Linear Bible and not from the Massoretic text. However, the linear bible is used in Hebrew schools for the young and must indicate special emphasis.]

---

### [chek](/keys/ChKf) - חך
> to taste; the throat, palate, mouth as organ of speech.

> - [Job 34:3](https://biblehub.com/job/34-3.htm): *"(2) hear my words, you wise men; listen to me, you men of learning. (3) for the ear test words as the palate (tongue) tastes food."*
> - Also in [Job 6:30](https://biblehub.com/job/6-30.htm): *"Is there any wickedness on my lips? Can my mouth not discern malice?"*
> - And in [Proverbs 8:7](https://biblehub.com/proverbs/34-3.htm): *"My mouth speaks what is true, for my lips detest wickedness."* (Kaph = 500). see [28](28).

---

### [choresh](/keys/ChRSh) - חרש
> carpenter, craftsman. [Isaiah 44:13](https://biblehub.com/isaiah/44-13.htm): *"The carpenter measures with a line and makes an outline with a marker; he roughs it out with chisels and marks it with compasses. He shapes it in the form of man, of man in all his glory, that it may dwell in a shrine."*

---

### [ubashar](/keys/VBShR) - ובשר
Flesh. [Genesis 2:23](https://biblehub.com/genesis/2-23.htm): *"And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man."*

---

### [nichamti](/keys/NChMThI) - נחמתי
I am sorry; it repenteth me. [Genesis 6:7](https://biblehub.com/genesis/6-7.htm): *"And the LORD said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth; both man, and beast, and the creeping thing, and the fowls of the air; for it repenteth me that I have made them."*

---

### [thaqach](/keys/ThQCh) - תקח
Thou shalt take. [Genesis 7:2](https://biblehub.com/genesis/7-2.htm): *"Of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens, the male and his female: and of beasts that are not clean by two, the male and his female."*

---

### [nachalateka](/keys/NChLThK) - נחלתך
Of thine inheritance. [Exodus 15:17](https://biblehub.com/exodus/15-17.htm): *"Thou shalt bring them in, and plant them in the mountain of thine inheritance, in the place, O LORD, which thou hast made for thee to dwell in, in the Sanctuary, O Lord, which thy hands have established."*

---

### See Also:

- [58](58)
- [13](13)
- [4](4)
- [BibleWheel: 508](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?Gem_Number=508)
