## 525 - Five Hundred Twenty-Five
> (3x5x5x7)

### [Jehovah Tzabaoth](/keys/IHVH.TzBAVTh) - יהוה צבאות
> Jehovah (Lord) of Hosts. Who is the King of Glory? The Lord of Hosts He [HVA] is the King of Glory [Psalm 24:10](http://biblehub.com/psalms/24-10.htm). The Divine Name attributed to Netzach; with fire and to the South.. Tzabaoth is from a root meaning: to go forth to war, to assemble, to mass. The Hosts massed in the Heavens and on Earth are manifold expressions of love. Purified and perfected desire is transmuted into love. It is the attractive force which maintains the order of the Universe, and is the driving power behind every form of desire. In some degree this name corresponds to the central figure of [Tarot Key 7](7), a warrior riding in a chariot. see [Isaiah 45:13](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/45-13.htm), [1813](1813) Greek.

### [Zerah Abraham](/keys/ZRO.ABRHM) - זרע אברהם
> Seed of Abraham. [2 Chronicles 20:7](http://biblehub.com/2_chronicles/20-7.htm). Abraham means "Father of Multitude." The patriarch is the biblical personification of reproductive power. "Seed" designates the force which is basic in occult practice. The seed is the Word, and the Word is the sword of the Spirit. The Word is love and love gives the victory (Netzach). The universe is even now the manifestation of a power which is always victorious. In the passage cited, Abraham appears as the friend of God. This is a link with one basic meaning of the seventh Sephirah. see [148](148), [710](710), [64](64), [519](519), [1085](1085).

### [chokmath ha-mebita](/keys/ChKMTh.HMBTA) - חכמת המבטא
> rhetoric. One of the 7 liberal arts. It is an art of speech. This connects with [Key 7](7) in Tarot, as Cancer is attributed to Speech. Note also that the first path proceeding from Netzach is that of Peh, the mouth as organ of speech. Speech gives victory over the "seed".

### [Daniel Rab Chartiah](/keys/DNIAL.RB.ChRTIA) - דניאל רב חרטיא
> Daniel, Master of the Magicians. חרט, [magic](/keys/ChRT), to engrave; חרטם, [Magician](/keys/ChRTM). see [217](217), [257](257), [609](609), [1102](1102).

> The original text calls Daniel Rab Chariomia, "Master of the Astrologers." "That which is translated 'astrologer' would be more accurately rendered 'enchanter', for it signifies a person skilled in the correlation of the various kinds of vibration through the use of sound. This science and art of controlling all modes of vibration through certain uses of sounds is akin to what the Hindus call mantra-yoga, and it is closely allied to astrology." [Paul Case, in the Article "Daniel Master of Magicians"] Desire of Mastery of "speech" aids illumination.

### See Also:

- [12](12)
- [3](3)
