## 53 - Fifty-Three
> prime. Number of degrees in the larger acute angle of the Pythagorean Triangle. Therefore, the number 53 defines the union of the Son, Horus, with the Father, Osiris.

---

### [Ehben](/keys/ABN) - אבן
> "Stone," rock, a weight. From a root meaning: to build. Conjunction of Father and Son. The state of conscious identification of the EGO with the cosmic, or universal SELF. Also known as the Philosopher's stone, the "third eye," the Sanctum sanctorum (Holy of Holies) of pineal gland. The organ of true spiritual vision which enables one to SAee beyond the limits of the physical plane, and perceive man's perfect union with his divine source. Mundinus and Medales identify the secret fire of alchemy with the stone, אבן and with the quintessence (spirit). The alchemical Fire is the radiant energy of the sun. See [73](73), [444](444), [54](54) (Latin).

> Also אבן (oven), fossil. See [532](532).

> *"The stone is the garden, and the garden is the place of delight. That is, אבן is גן, and גן is עדן, [Eden](/keys/ODN), for the stone is the union of the Son with the Father, and since אבן and גן are both 53, the stone is the stone of Eden, as is the garden... the stone and the garden are one, and as the stone is the unionof Chokmah and Tiphareth, so also is the garden that same union; and from union cometh delight. Never is there delight in separateness. Only when Father and Son are conjoined is there delight. (NB There is here a double veil. For because בן and אימא are both 52, the conjunction of אב and בן implies the conjunction of אב and איגמא. בן and אימא are identical, but either אב and בן, or אב and אימא may be in the perfect union intimated by אבן). Now of this conjunction is גן the sign, because ג is the Uniting Intelligence, and נ is the Imaginative Intelligence. ג unites Ketherנ to Tiphareth, and נ unites Tiphareth to Netzach. ג is the Moon. נ is Mars in Scorpio. Add these in our ROTA and they make [15](15), which is the glyph of the Renewing Intelligence that linketh Tiphareth to Hod... Now, נ links the sphere of the Sun to the Sphere of Venus, and thus in גן you may see the whirling motion of Kether, descending to the sphere of the Sun, and projecting itself into the sphere of Venus. This, in the ROTA, is the Garden of the Magician; and what is the soil of that garden if not be identical with אבן, the stone? And thus do you see that the stone and the garden are reallly אימא, the mother, and behold! אימא and בן are one in numeration."* [Qabalistic text - 17th Communication 6/12/47]

> *"In the Rosicrucian allegory this is the stone which is discovered fastened to the nail (Vav) which is fastened to the memorial table. The stone is removed because it sticks to the nail, and this means that intuition follows right recollection. Right recollection enables us to discover the truth about ourselves, which truth is the stone, ehben."* [PFC - True and invisible Rosicrucian Order]

> In the Book of Lambspring: *"The Son ever remains in the Father, and the Father in the Son. Thus in divers things they produce untold precious fruit. They perish ???? and laugh at death. By the grace of God they abide forever, the Father and the Son, triumphing gloriously in the splendor of their new kingdom. Upon the throne they sit, and the face of the ancient master is straightway seen between them: he is arrayed in a crimson robe."* [Hermetic Museum I, p. 304].

> Case: *"Note that the completion of the work is the union of Father and Son, viz, the Stone, אבן."* According to Inman: *"אבן signifies a rock or stone. Amongst the ancients generally and amongst the Hebrews themselves an upright stone indicated the creator; of a ??? at Cyprus, the celebrated ??? Venus, was a ??? stone."* [Ancient Faith, p. 468.]

---

### [Gan](/keys/GN) - גן
> Garden, wall enclosure, a place hedged or walled around, hence an enclosure, mystically the Garden of Eden, perfected state of being which the state of conscious identification of the EGO with the cosmic or Universal Self. see [127](127), [77](77).

> - [Genesis 3:24](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-24.htm) - [Garden of Eden](/keys/GN.ADN).
> - [Genesis 13:18](http://biblehub.com/genesis/13-18.htm) - [Garden of IHVH](/keys/GN.IHVH).
> - [Ezekiel 38:13](http://biblehub.com/genesis/38-13.htm) - [Garden of Elohim](/keys/GN.ALHIM).

---

### [Khammaw](/keys/ChMH) - חמה
> Sun (poetical). The "secret fire" of the alchemist, the radiant energy of the Sun. Figuratively poison due to its inflaming effect. Also alchemical gold, whose center is Tiphareth, the heart center. It is the "secret fire" of alchemy, the radiant energy of the sun and the quintessence, the substance of all things. see [640](640).

> Literally heat, also fever; rage; to be hot, to glow, excitement through wine [Hosea 7:5](http://biblehub.com/hosea/7-5.htm). Hence wine is heating; heat, anger. [Genesis 27:44](http://biblehub.com/genesis/27-44.htm). Burning anger, wrath, fury. **ChM**, Ham, the name of Noah's son, meaning: warmth, heat, hot, season, temperature.

---

### [khaemaw](/keys/ChMH) - חמה
> (fem noun) to bind or join; to unite, to hold; to enclose, to surround with a wall. see [Key 19](19). Figuratively, to be allied in affinity, to fasten.

---

### [Ha Gedulah](/keys/H.GDVLH) - הגדולה
> The Majesty, the magnificence. Alternate name of Chesed prefixed by a definite article. [1 Chronicles 29:11](http://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/29-11.htm) translates it as "Greatness", and includes the names of Geburah, Tiphareth, Netzach and Hod. It is one of the oldest references to the Tree of Life.

> Thine, O LORD, is the greatness, and the power, and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty: for all that is in the heaven and in the earth is thine; thine is the kingdom, O LORD, and thou art exalted as head above all. [1 Chronicles 29:11](http://biblehub.com/1_chronicles/29-11.htm).

---

### [navah](/keys/NBA) - נבא
> to speak under divine influence, to prophecy, to inspire, endow with prophetic gift.

---

### [Maygiddo](/keys/MGDV) - מגדו
> Megiddo, Megidoo. "Place of Troops". An ancient Canaanite stronghold, near which was fought the battle of Armageddon, in with the fortress of light defeat those of darkness. [Zechariah 12:11](http://biblehub.com/zechariah/12-11.htm): *"In that day shall there be a great mourning in Jerusalem, as the mourning of Hadadrimmon in the valley of Megiddo." text unreadable] The King of Megiddo, one."* Relates to Armageddon, the last great battle. see [958](958), [1008](1008) (Greek).

---

### [yod ha vav hi](/keys/IVD-HA-VV-HI) - יוד הא וו הי
> Special spelling of IHVH. Since it has the same value as Khammaw, it designates the heat and fire which descends through the Tree of Life on the side of Geburah.

---

### [Biteku Ba-Jehovah](/keys/BTChV.BIHVH) - בטחו ביהוה
> "Trust ye in the Lord." [Isaiah 26:4](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/26-4.htm). The only way to return to the Garden of Eden and sit upon the "Stone", of Majesty.

---

### [Ayiyawm](/keys/ABIM) - אבים
> Father of the sea. personal noun. Spirit-fire (Father) involving itself in manifestation (the sea).

---

### [tekhol](/keys/TChVL) - טחול
> the milt or spleen. Associated with Mars is some versions of the Book of Formation. Assigned to the "seed-making" power."

---

### [meahavah](/keys/MAHBH) - מאהבה
> Lover. From [mahav](/keys/MAHB), Love.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [acacia](/greek?word=akakia) (Greek spelling) - ἀκακία
> Innocence; without guile, harmlessness. Wood used to build the Temple of Solomon. Symbol of immorality and initiation. Tree (in Masonic symbols). Makey writes: *"The spring of Acacia... presents itself as a symbol of the immorality of the soul being intended to remind... by its evergreen and unchanging nature of that better and spiritual part within us, which as an emanation from the Grand Architect of the Universe, can never die. And as this is the most ordinary, the most generally accepted signification, so also is it the most important... Secondly, then the Acacia [Akakia] is a symbol of innocence. The symbolism here is of a peculiar and unusual character, depending not on any real analogy in the form or use of the symbol to the idea symbolized, but simply on a double or compound meaning of the word. For [Greek word], in the Greek language signifies both the plant in question and the moral quality of innocence or purity of life. In this sense the symbolism refers, primally, to him over whose solitary ?grave? the Acacia was planted [i.e. Hiram Abiff], and whose virtuous conduct, whole integrity of life and purity of life and fidelity to his truths have ever been presented as patterns to the craft..."* [p.8]

---

### [datum](/latin?word=datum) (Lt)
> given. Used in Secret symbols (page 20) at the close of a preface to an alchemical treatise. The full phrase is "[Datum In Monte Abiegno](182)," which identifies it as Rosicrucian. see [182](182).

---

### [ecclesia](/latin?word=ecclesia) (Lt)
> church. The church is the Stone.

---

### [Liber M](/latin?word=liber+m) (Lt)
> "Book M." The book which brother CR translated from Arabic into Latin. It is the "book of the World." see [380](380), [97](97) (Lt).

---

### [mons](/latin?word=mons) (Lt)
> mountain. [Secret symbols Page 11]. A typical Rosicrucian symbol for the Stone and also for the Great Work.

---

### [panis](/latin?word=panis) (Lt)
> bread (lit. the feeding thing). The House of Bread (Bethlehem), the sign Virgo, and the part of the body governed by it (the small intestine), and the Stone which is said in alchemical books to be, life bread, a product of coction-cooking or baking. In the church (eccelesia), the Christ is held to be represented by and mystically present in the Bread of the communion (Panis) and is identified with the Stone.

---

### [patebo](/latin?word=patebo) (Lt)
> "I will open." Part of the Motto on the vault of C.R. "Post CXX Annos Patebo." see [200](200).

---

### [spes](/latin?word=spes) (Lt)
> hope; a goddess in Roman tradition. see [167](167), [717](717).

---

### [Archon](/latin?word=Archon) (Lt)
> from Greek αρχων, [Archon](/greek//greek?word=archOn), which is from ἀρχῇ, [Arche](/greek?word=archh), "to rule, to be first." Used in [John 1:1](http://biblehub.com/john/1-1.htm): ἀρχῇ - "In the beginning." In ancient Athens, one of the chief magistrates chosen from the most illustrious families to superintend civil and religious matters. Speculative. Not in Paul Case Gematria.

---

### [RC, B, GG, PD](/latin?word=RC+B+GG+PD) (Lt)
> The initials of the second group of four who were called by Brother C.R. to complete the work of founding the Rosicrucian order. They raised the 4 to the 8, the square of the perfect cube.

---

### English Gematria:

- [Poet](/english?word=Poet) *([Fama Intro p.12](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n12))*. A reference to [Virgil](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virgil) who wrote the [Aenead](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aeneid).
- [wise](/english?word=wise) *([Fama Intro p.12](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n12))*
- [alter](/english?word=alter) *([Fama Intro p.13](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13))*
- [Latin](/english?word=latin) *([Fama p.3](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/3), [p.5](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/5))*
- [Damasco](/english?word=Damasco) *([Fama p.4](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/4))*

---

### See Also:

- [8](8)
