## 532 - Five Hundred Thirty-Two
> (4x7x19)

---

### [menahig ha-achadoth](/keys/MNHIG.HAChDVTh) - מנהיג האחדות
> Driver of Unities (literally). The [13th path](13) of the letter [Gimel](/keys/G). Also: The Uniting Intelligence, Conductive Intelligence of Unity, Conducting the (powers) of the unities, Leading to Unity. "The perfection of the truths of spiritual unities." The noun [מנהיג], menahig, "driver," is from the verb [מנחג], [minhag](/keys/MNChG), "to drive" (as a chariot). To a Qabalist, therefore, this word would convey a definite reference to the whole meaning of the Tree of Life, inasmuch as the study of the Tree and its relations is often termed "The Work of the Chariot." see [108](108), [424](424), [419](419), [882](882).

> [beginning of text missing] Thus menahig signifies "the apportionment of the power of Yod, the father, through Gimel". Haachadoth, the unities: its first letter, Heh is not only the definite article but is also the special letter of Binah, the mother. The next three letters אחד, "one", add to 13, the number of the path of Gimel. The fifth letter is Vav, which is the Hebrew conjunction, "and" and corresponds to the path linking Chokmah to Chesed, and is used many times as a sign for Tiphareth, the son. finally, the sixth letter is Tav, the last letter of the alphabet. Thus the veiled meaning is: "the (Heh) first (אחד) (one) "and" (Vav) the last (Tav). yet another is: "The mother is first and last."

> The path of Gimel is the link between God and Man, centered through the pituitary body, behind the root of the nose. The work of the 13th Path is closely related to alchemical sublimation, the completion of which is the philosopher's stone. The magus performs the Great Work by divesting the serpent-power (astral light) of all appearances of manyiness. One passes from Tiphareth (Sun) through the path of Gimel (the Moon). The Magus has full comprehension of the principles of cyclic motion, exemplified in astrology, and knows how to apply them. He has a transmutation of consciousness as well as a command of physical forces which enable him to alter the structure of atoms. He aim at some realization of beauty. He knows that he does nothing of himself, and his word that is an expression of true will vitalizes him to overflowing with an abundance of power. is one rule of actions is that of Jesus: *"As I hear (Vav), I judge."*

---

### [ehben ha-chokmath](/keys/ABN.HChKMVTh) - אבן החכמות
> stone of the wise.

---

### [ehben ha-da'ath](/keys/ABN.HDOTh) - אבן הדעת
> Stone of knowledge.

> *"... The work of the 13th path must be closely related to the alchemical operation called 'sublimation'. The completion of that work is the confection of that which may be called either אבן החכמות, [stone of the wise](/keys/ABN.HChKMVTh) (i.e. philosopher's stone) or אבן הדעת, [stone of knowledge](/keys/ABN.HDOTh). In connection with the latter name note that the place of דעת, [Da'ath](/keys/DOTh), knowledge on the Tree of Life is in the [13th Path](13), at the point where the [14th Path](14) crosses it--midway between Chokmah and Binah... In brief, then the great work makes the sun of wisdom rise, perfect the stone of the wise. It is a work wherein Chokmah (Ab) supplies the mathematical knowledge of principles, wherein Binah (Aima) provides the specific understanding of concrete application, and wherein Tiphareth (Ben) contributes the motive of beauty. Thus the powers of a Magus (Chokmah) and a Master of the Temple (Binah) are conjoined in an operation which begins from the level of the seemingly interior grade of Lesser Adept (Tiphareth)."* [PFC: True and Invisible (WeiserBooks), pp. 299, 301]

---

### [Khammaw ha-Chokmath](/keys/ChMH.HChKMVTh) - חמה החכמות
> Sun of Wisdom.

---

### [Khammaw ha-Da'ath](/keys/ChMH.HDOTh) - חמה הדעת
> Sun of knowledge. The son in Tiphareth has perfect knowledge of union with the self in Kether. see [474](474).

---

### [IHVH hu nakhalatho](/keys/IHVH.HVA.NChLThV) - יהוה הוא נחלתו
> *"IHVH is their inheritance."* [Deuteronomy 18:2](http://biblehub.com/deuternomy/18-2.htm). The Lord unites with the light of the vast countenance in Kether, igniting the powers of memory.

---

### [lekhem tawmid](/keys/LChM.ThMID) - לחם תמיד
> perpetual bread. The whew bread, never absent from its table in the temple and the tabernacle. there were always 12 loaves, which represented the 12 tribes, and thus the 12 zodiacal influences (signs). מזלא [Mezla](/keys/MZLA), influence, which represents the active power flowing through all 32 paths of Wisdom, is  numerically 78, which is also the value of לחם, [Lechem](/keys/LChM), bread. The "influence" is the real support of human existence, our true staff of life. see [12](12), [78](78)

---

## Greek

---

### [Alpha](/greek?word=alpha) (Gr) - αλφα
> The Greek spelling of the name of the first letter of the alphabet. Transliteration of the Hebrew [Aleph](/keys/A), the Ox. see [111](111).

---

### [kalumma](/greek?word=kalumma) (Gr) - καλυμμα
> A veil [2 Corinthians 3:15](http://biblehub.com/2_corinthians/3-15.htm). In the New Testament passage cited, this word is a symbol for ignorance. It is the veil of appearances which hides the radiance of the Limitless Light behind the phenomena of name and form.

---

### See Also:

- [10](10)
- [1](1)
- [BibleWheel Database](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=532)
