## 535 - Five Hundred Thirty-Five
> (5x107)

---

### [hawlak](/keys/HLKf) - הלך
> [Kaph = 500]. to go, depart, disappear; traveler (see [55](55)). to walk, to go; to walk about, to proceed; to depart, go away; to pass away, disappear.

> also: traveler, flowing. see [55](55). The divine traveler is Aleph, the spirit or eternal fool, who passes through one cycle of evolution, and apparently departs, to begin another. see [111](111).

---

### [merkabah + khoser](/keys/MRKBH.ChSR) - מרכבה חסר
> chariot, vehicle plus want, lack, poverty. The personality is the vehicle through which divine creativity functions. Its use or misuse brings wealth of poverty. see [267](267), [268](268).

---

### [qoheleth](/keys/QHLTh) - קהלת
> preacher, teacher; a surname of King Solomon. The first word of the book of Ecclesiastes: "The words of the teacher (preacher), Son of David, King of Jerusalem."

---

### [al-naphsha](/keys/OL-NPShH) - על־נפשה
upon her soul. ([Concordance](https://biblehub.com/hebrew/nafshah_5315.htm)). see [435](435). [Numbers 30:6](https://biblehub.com/numbers/30-6.htm): *"And if she had at all an husband, when she vowed, or uttered ought out of her lips, wherewith she bound **upon her soul**"*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [kai heipen ho theos](/greek?word=kai+eipen+o+theos) (Gr) - καὶ εἶπεν ὁ θεός
> "And God said"; the creative Word or powers which brought forth the universe. Septuagint translation of [vayomer elohim](/keys/VIAMR.ALHIM), ויאמר אלהים ([343](343)) in [Genesis 1:3](https://www.blueletterbible.org/lxx/gen/1/3/s_1003) "and God (Elohim) said 'let there be light', and there was light." see [343](343), [86](86), [284](284) (Greek), [3218](3218).

---

### [kteis](/greek?word=kteis) (Gr) - κτεις
> cont. Mackey writes: *"The female personification of the productive principle. It generally accompanied the phallus, as the Indian Yoni did the Lingam (see Key 7); and as a symbol of the prolific powers of nature, was extensively venerated by the nations of antiquity."* [Encyclopedia of Freemasonry, p.199]

---

