## 570 - Five Hundred Seventy

> (2x5x57)

NPThLI Tribe of Naphtali. my wrestling. [Genesis 49:21] "Naphtali is a hind let loose: he gives goodly words." "Goodly words" is the attribute of Naphtali in Jacob's blessing. Connected with the letter Yod, the sign Virgo, the Intelligence of Will, the function of coition, the sense of touch, the direction north-below, Key 9, The Hermit and to alchemical distillation, the 6th stage of the Great Work. Distillation is the process of separating volatile essences of solar energy from intestinal chyle, by acts of self-consciousness attention. It is the assimilation of "liquid gold". The adept, by this process, charges his blood-stream and nervous system with a superabundance of liquid "Yods". He exerts this rule in the selection of what he eats and drinks, and in the conscious control of breathing. The direction assigned to Yod and distillation is a combination of North (Key 16) and below (Key 2) corresponding to the Mars center and the Moon center, or pituitary body. Psychologically, it is impossible to recognize the One Identity pictured as the hermit until false structures of separateness are broken down and united to the subconscious field pictured by the High Priestess. When one know, he can make a specific suggestion that assimilation of the subtle essence can be increased, the use of positive affirmations combined with visual imagery. see 501, 54, 162, 830, 395, 30, 95, 331, 443, 20, 7, 351, 466, 46.

---

KSPITh Kasepith. Quicksilver, Mercury. A reference to the first matter of the stone.

---

LMK Lamech. "powerful". Name of biblical patriarch who, according to Masonic tradtion, was the father of that ancient craft. [Genesis 4:18]. see 90. [Kaph = 500]

---

MLK Melek. king, ruler, to administer. A name for Tiphareth, as the set of the higher Ego or Christos. the essential spirit of Man (Adam) as the dominant power in creation. [Kaph = 500] see 90.

---

ROSh ra'ash. quaking, shaking, quivering, earthquake, commotion. From the verb ROSh, to quake, shake, to storm, rage [Jeremiah 47:3] "At the noise of the stamping of the hoofs of his strong horses, at the rushing of his chariots, and at the rumbling of his wheels, the fathers shall not look back to their children for feebleness of hands." [Nahum 3:2] "The noise of a whip, and the noise of the rattling of the wheels, and of the prancing horses, and of the jumping chariots."

Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.691] says that ROSh (earthquake) with allusion to RShO wickedness is that impiety, which seduces and moves the earth, and in a moment loses all sense of justice and balance.

---

RShO raesha. wickedness, viciousness, injustice, wrong, guilt; wicked men. [Psalm 5:5] "The foolish shall not stand in the sight: thou has all worker of iniquity." Also RShO rawshaw. wicked man; villain, sinner, guilt, wrongful claimant. [Job 20:29] ""This is a portion of a wicked man from God, and the heritage appointed unto him by God."

---

ShKL ThHVR Saykel Tahoor. Purified or Pure Intelligence. The 9th path of Yesod. Tahoor means clean, so called because it "Purifies the essence of the Sephiroth, proves and preserves their images and prevents them from loss by their union with itself." Teth is the lion which is tamed, not killed by the wreath or roses. Heh is related to man's power of directing circumstance through use of foresight. Vav represent the Self which reveals the secret wisdom of the forces concentrated in Yesod. Resh is the early stages of man's awareness of becoming a "new creature"-the child- like fusion of Self and subconsciousness centered in the Ego. Man makes himself a member of the 5th kingdom by utilizing the tremendous surplus of reproductive power. Here the fitness of every personality is tested and tried, they who are called and chosen are they whose organisms are ready for the work. see 220, 80, 430, 160.

"It is the Clear Intelligence, purifying all numerations and preserving the integrity of their images." [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom]

---

ShOR sha'ar. Gate, entrance; market; meeting place [Amos 5:12], measure, estimate, estimation, proportion. In later Hebrew a title page of a Book. A title of Malkuth [Judges 16:3].

---

OShR asar, essar. the number ten; wealth. The 10th Sephirah, the Kingdom of Earth.

Fabre D'Olivet comments: "OShR, ten. This is to say,. the congregation of power proper, of elementary motive force. This meaning result form the two contracted roots OSh-ShR. By the first, OSh, is understood, every formation by aggregation; thence, the verb OShVH to make; by the second, ShR, every motive principle; thence the verb ShVR to direct, to govern. [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.154] For other numerals see 13, 400, 636, 273, 348, 600, 372, 395, 770, 441.

Of OSh, he adds: "Every idea of conformation by aggregation of parts, or in consequence of an intelligent movement, of combination or plan formed in advance by the will; thence, OSh a work, a composition; a creation, a fiction, a labor of any sort, a thing; action of doing in general. The Arabic [word] has lost the radical sense, and instead of a formation in general, is restricted to designation a particular formation, as that of a nest, garment etc. [Arabic word] signifies to commit fraud, falsification; to feign, dissimulate, etc." [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.422]

Of ShR he writes: "This root admits of several significations, according to its composition. If it is the sign of relative movement which is united simply to that of movement proper, there results from this abstract mingling of the circular line with the straight line, an idea of solution, opening, liberation; as if a closed circle where opened; as if a chain were slackened: if one considers this same sign of relative movement, being united by contraction to the elementary root AR, then it partakes of the diverse expression of this root and develops ideas of strength, vigor, domination, power, which results form the elementary principle; if sign of movement proper, one discovers here the expression of that which is directed according to just and upright laws; thence according to the first signification: ShR that which liberates, opens, brings out, emits, produces; as the navel, a field, etc." [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp. 463-464]

---

OShR awsare. to tithe; take a tenth part of. As an intransitive verb, "to make rich, become rich."

---

ORSh oras. to bind, to roof.

---

ORSh eres. couch, bed, sarcophagus [Deuteronomy 3:11]. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.634] refers to this word as lectus, couch, marriage-bed; (dining or funeral couch), and says it is Malkuth, being the metathesis of OSR, ten, because it [Malkuth] stands under the decade or 10 Sephiroth.

---

ISK yawsak. to pour. [Exodus 30:32] "Upon man's flesh shall it not be poured, neither shall ye make any other like it [holy anointing oil], after the composition of it: it is holy, and it shall be holy unto you." [Kaph = 500]

---

VIThO IHVH ALHIM GN BODN MQDM and the Lord God planted a garden in Eden eastward. [Genesis] The divine seed is planted in the physical body (the garden) to bring delight (Eden) and enlightenment (eastward) this is accomplished through alchemical distillation. see 53, 124.

---

RIShIN reshin. heads. \*\*\* [beginning of text missing] "you have lifted up the shrine of your Mokech, the pedestal of you idols, the star of your God- which you made for yourselves." [Kaph = 500] see 90. Davidson says that his is also a fallen angel in Paradise Lost II:4 of Milton, where he is described as the fiercest spirit that fought in heaven; now fiercer by despair." Solomon built a temple to him. [Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.198] see [1 Kings 2:7].

---

Greek/Latin

---

ho thronos (Gr). the throne; seat, chair of state, judge's chair,
teacher.

---

hoi huioi (Gr). the sons [Matthew 13:38]. "The field is the
world; the Good seed are the sons of the Kingdom..."

---

Visita Interiora Terrae Rectificando Invenies Occultum Lapidem (Lt). Visit the interior of the earth; by rectifying you shall find the hidden stone [Secret Symbols page 17]. The earth is GVPh, Guph, the body, attributed to Malkuth. We find the stone with the body. When we "visit the interior of the earth," we find that the moving spirit which animates the organism is what we term, "I, Myself." see 150, 57, 94, 164, 160, 73, 99, 61, 88, 96 Latin, 54.

---

### [](/keys/) -

([Concordance]())

- [](): _""_
- [](): _""_
- [](): _""_
- [](): _""_

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [](/greek?word=) (Gr) -

([Concordance]())

- [](): _""_
- [](): _""_
- [](): _""_
- [](): _""_

---

### [](/latin?word=) (Lt)

[definition](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=THE_WORD)

---

### See Also:

- [99](99)
- [Bible Wheel: 888](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=888)
