## 574 - Five Hundred Seventy-Four
> (2x7x41)

---

### [qol ve-ruach ve-dabur](/keys/QVL.VRVCh.VDBVR) - קול ורוח ודבור
> voice and breath (spirit) and word. Variant spelling. see [568](568). [Sepher Yetzirah 1:8]: *"Voice, spirit and word: this is the spirit of the holy one. His beginning has no beginning and his end has no ending."*

---

### [yerakhshon](/keys/IRChShVN) - ירחשון
> Has a general meaning of "movement" [Sepher Dtzenioutha 19:, pp.83, 87] *"It is written, [Genesis 1:20](https://biblehub.com/genesis/1-20.htm), 'Let the waters bring forth the reptile of a living soul (ChIH living creature, [23](23)]. another explanation; 'Let the waters bring forth abundantly.' In this place, in the Chaldee paraphrase, it is said IRChShVN which has a general meaning of movement. As if it should be said: 'When his lips by moving themselves, and murmuring, produced the words, like a prayer from a righteous heart and pure mind, the water produced the living soul.' (the meaning is concerning the act of generation life)."* [IRCh = Moon, as wanderer, to wander].

---

### [mawel shawqed](/keys/MQL.ShQD) - מקל שקד
> "A rod of an almond tree" [Jeremiah 1:11](https://biblehub.com/jeremiah/1-11.htm): *"Moreover, the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, 'Jeremiah, what sees thou? And I said, "I see a rod of an almond tree.'"*

> Note that the wood of the almond was used to make the magical wand, connected with Mercury, or attention and concentration. (שקד = to wake, be watchful; to watch, keep watch, keep guard; to be studious, be zealous, be industrious; שקד diligence, sedulity). see [404](404), [170](170).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [kephalei](/greek?word=kephalhi) (Gr) - κεφαλῇ
head. ([Concordance](https://biblehub.com/greek/kephale__2776.htm))

- [Matthew 5:36](https://biblehub.com/text/matthew/5-36.htm): *"Neither shalt thou swear by thy **head**, because thou canst not make one hair white or black."*
- [John 19:2](https://biblehub.com/text/john/19-2.htm): *"And the soldiers platted a crown of thorns, and put it on his **head**, and they put on him a purple robe,"*
- [1 Corinthians 11:5](https://biblehub.com/text/1_corinthians/11-5.htm): *"But every woman that prayeth or prophesieth with her **head** uncovered dishonoureth her head: for that is even all one as if she were shaven."*

---

### [Nequaquam Vacuum, Legis Jugum, Libertas Evangelii, Dei Gloria Intacta](/latin?word=Nequaquam+Vacuum+Legis+Jugum+Libertas+Evangelii+Dei+Gloria+Intacta)
> [Nequaquam Vacuum](/latin?word=Nequaquam+Vacuum). (Lt). Nowhere a vacuum. The sign Leo. The element Fire. Numerical value [170](170).

> [Legis Jugum](/latin?word=Legis+Jugum). (Lt). The yoke of the law. the eagle, Scorpio; element Water. Numerical value [113](113).

> [Libertas Evangelii](/latin?word=Libertas+Evangelii). (Lt). Liberty of the Gospels. Man, Aquarius, the element Air. Numerical value [155](155).

> [Dei Gloria Intacta](/latin?word=Dei+Gloria+Intacta). (Lt). The untouchable glory of God. Taurus, the Bull. Earth. Numerical value [136](136).

> [170](170)+[113](113)+[155](155)+[136](136) = 574. These are the 4 numbered mottos on the round altar in the vault of C.R. They are definitely related to the 4 elements. (In ancient Babylonian pantheon there were 2 divine principles. Apsu, the primeval sweet-water ocean. The male. And Tiamat, the primeval salt-water ocean. The female. Tiamat was formerly thought of as a dragon, but, in the Babylonian myth she and Apsu became the Mother and Father of the Gods. So Vivekananda also refereed to Kundalini, the serpent, as the Mother. the deep is Binah, Ama, the Mother; and the Fire of Yod is concealed in Her.) see [496](496).

---

### See Also:

- [16](16)
- [7](7)
- [Bible Wheel: 574](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=574)

