## 611 - Six Hundred Eleven
> (13x47)

---

### [Torah](/keys/ThVRH) - תורה
> Law. The Zohar [IV:166B, p.74] comments: The Torah is a light which kindles that lamp (i.e. the mishnah] from the side of primordial light, which is of the right hand, because the Torah was given form the right hand [Deuteronomy 33:2](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/33-2.htm), although the left was included in it to attain perfect harmony. this light is included in the [207](207) (אור, [light](/keys/AVR) = 207 = אין סוף, [the boundless](/keys/AIN.SVP)) worlds which are concealed in the region of light, and is spread throughout all of them. These worlds are under the hidden supernal throne. There are [310](310) (יש = 310 = מטרונה [matrona](/keys/MTRVNH)) of them: 207 belongs to the right hand and 103 (אבנים, [stones](/keys/ABNIM) = 103 = הוא האלהים, [He is God](/keys/HVA.HALHIM)) to the left hand. These are the worlds which are always prepared by the holy one for the righteous, and from them spread treasures of precious things, which are stored away for the delight of the righteous in the world to come.

> [Exodus 12:49](http://biblehub.com/exodus/12-49.htm): *"There shall be one law for the native and for the stranger who sojourns among you."*

---

### [awshish](/keys/AShISh) - אשיש
> glass bottle, flagon; a pressed raisin cake. The bottle suggest the alchemical vase of art , where transmutation of fear into wisdom takes place as putrefaction. This is the law of the fountain of life, which frees from death. see [Key 13](13), [50](50), [106](106), [700](700). It is the operation of Spirit (Aleph) to transform (Shin), the divine will (Yod) which transfigures through fire (Shin). see [1017](1017).

---

### [Edom](/keys/ADVMf) - אדום
> edom, red (variant spelling). Land S.E. of Palestine, a name given to Israel. Connected with unbalanced force. Note that red is the color of blood, the carrier of consciousness, and is connected with Mars. [Mem = 600] see [51](51), [45](45), [342](342).

---

### [ayem](/keys/AIMf) - אים
> Goetic Demon by day of the 2nd decanate of Scorpio. This decanate is ruled by Jupiter and Neptune and has the qualities: Sagacious, analytical, penetrative. The letters of the demon's name suggest conscious immoral use of energy (Aleph) to divert the divine will into personal goals (Yod), resulting in a reversal of receptivity from spiritual to material influences (Mem). In the Tarot Minor Arcana this decanate is also assigned to the 6 of Cups. This represent Tiphareth, the central Ego, or sphere of the Sun, in Briah, the place of mental images and creative thinking. It takes the discriminative, distinguishing action of the Ego consciousness to relate these desires to their archetypal essence by purging them of the separateness and personal attachment with which they have become mixed, due to the influence of this demon. This can result in deceit in reference to partner's money, loss of inheritance through some sort of swindle; danger of death on water, or through poisons or anesthetics, some reversal of fortune. [Mem = 600] see [51](51).

---

### [chegreth](/keys/ChGRTh) - חגרת
armor, to gird for battle. Also, coverings. [Genesis 3:7](https://biblehub.com/genesis/3-7.htm): *"And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked; and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons"*

---

### [gimelut hasidim](/keys/GMILVTh.ChSDIM) - גמילות חסדים
acts of loving kindness.

---

### [eth-Cainan](/ATh-QINN) - את־קינן
CAINAN. Son of [Enosh](/keys/ANVSh). Grandson of [Seth](/keys/ShTh). see [210](210). [Genesis 5:9](https://biblehub.com/genesis/5-9.htm): *"And Enos lived ninety years, and begat Cainan."*

---

### [watahar](/keys/VThHR) - ותהר
and she conceived. [Genesis 4:1](https://biblehub.com/genesis/4-1.htm): *"And Adam knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, and said, I have gotten a man from the LORD"*

---

### [w'Arpakshad](/keys/VARPKShD) - וארפכשד
Arphaxad. [Genesis 10:22](https://biblehub.com/genesis/10-22.htm): *"The children of Shem; Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram."*

---

### [tira](/keys/ThIRA) - תירא
be you afraid. [Genesis 15:1](https://biblehub.com/genesis/15-1.htm): *"After these things the word of the LORD came unto Abram in a vision, saying, **Fear** not, Abram: I am thy shield, and thy exceeding great reward."*

---

### [rayitha](/keys/RAITh) - ראית
did you see. [Genesis 20:10](https://biblehub.com/genesis/20-10.htm): *"And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What **sawest thou,** that thou hast done this thing?"*

---

### [yirath](/keys/IRATh) - יראת
the fear. [Genesis 20:11](https://biblehub.com/genesis/20-11.htm): *"And Abraham said, Because I thought, Surely the fear of God is not in this place; and they will slay me for my wife's sake."*

---

### See Also:

- [8](8)
- [Bible Wheel: 611](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=611)
