## 612 - Six Hundred Twelve
> (3x4x51)

---

### [Seykel Mazohir](/keys/ShKL.MZHIR) - שכל מזהיר
> The Illuminating Intelligence. The 2nd Path of Chokmah. The light of Chokmah is the original light of Kether, the source of illumination for all below it on the Tree of Life. It is the Kether of Briah, or Crown of Creation. It is the body of the letter Yod at the beginning of the divine name IHVH, the initial active point of the Life-power's selfmanifestation (Kether) expanded into the power of conscious life which begin all cycles of creation, great and small. see [73](73), [642](642), [536](536), [15](15), [23](23).

> It is the Illuminating Intelligence, the crown of creation, the splendor of the supreme unity. [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom]

---

### [berith](/keys/BRITh) - ברית
> covenant; treaty, oath of fidelity. [Ezekiel 20:37](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/20-37.htm) *"...and I will bring you unto the bond of the covenant. Refers to the covenant made between God and Abraham, and between God and Moses regarding spiritual Israel."* see [700](700), [618](618).

> [Psalm 25:14](http://biblehub.com/psalms/25-14.htm) *"The secret of the Lord is with them that fear him; and he will show them his covenant."*

> Also: day demon of the 1st decanate of Capricorn. This decanate is ruled by Saturn and indicates fearfulness and caution regarding one's personal covenant to life, when materiality inhibits spiritual vision. Pointed BRITh means: alkali, soap, lye. The purified shall be bound to light. see [638](638), [68](68) (Greek).

---

### [aydon ha-aor ve-ha-khoshek](/keys/ADVN.HAVR.VHChShK) - אדון האור והחשך
> Lord of the light and of the darkness. Part of the gnostic adoration. see [61](61), [207](207), [328](328), [616](616).

---

### [peolooth IHVH](/keys/POLVTh.IHVH) - פעלות יהוה
> The work of Tetragrammaton. It is to spread the light and to illuminate the darkness. see [606](606).

---

### [Bim](/keys/BIMf) - בים
> בים ; goetic demon by day of the 2nd decanate of Sagittarius. This decanate is ruled by Mars and has the qualities: audacious, astute, adventurous. The influence of the demon suggest conscious imbalance, resulting in negative aspects of these qualities. The demon's name suggest attention (Beth) concentrated on diverting divine will (Yod) into personal objectives, reversing receptivity to spiritual states of mind (Mem). The 2nd decanate of Sagittarius is attributed, in the Tarot minor arcana, to the 9 of Wands. These represents Yesod, the pattern world of subconsciousness, in Atziluth, the archetypal plane of ideas, or the principles behind the reproductive power of the One Self. The influence of the demon causes the error of separateness in subconsciousness, and can result in danger, obstinacy, violence in foreign places or during long journeys; difficulties with relatives of the marriage partner or conflict with persons prominent in religion or law. The remedy is to analyze and apply reason to destroy this error or dissolve it repeatedly until it becomes an automatic habit pattern. [Mem = 600] see [52](52).

---

### [yabam](/keys/IBMf) - יבם
> brother-in-law. see [52](52). [Genesis 38:8](http://biblehub.com/genesis/38-8.htm): *"Then Judah said to Onan, 'lie with your brother's wife and fulfill your duty to her as a brother-in-law to produce offspring for your brother. (9) But Onan knew that the offspring would not be his; so whenever he lay with his brother's wife he spilled his seed on the ground to keep from producing offspring for his brother. (10) What he did was wicked in the Lord's sight; so he put him to death also."*

---

### [Yebem](/keys/IBMf) - יבם
> 70th name of Shemhamphorash, associated with the 4th quinance of Cancer [According to Godwin]. [Mem = 600] see [52](52).

---

### [eth-kal-hayqum](/keys/ATh-KL-HIKVM) - את־כל־היקום
All living things. [Genesis 7:4](https://biblehub.com/genesis/7-4.htm): *"For yet seven days, and I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights; and **every living substance** that I have made will I destroy from off the face of the earth."*

Also [Genesis 7:23](https://biblehub.com/genesis/7-23.htm): *"And **every living substance** was destroyed which was upon the face of the ground, both man, and cattle, and the creeping things, and the fowl of the heaven; and they were destroyed from the earth: and Noah only remained alive, and they that were with him in the ark."*

---

### [wetheraeh](/keys/VThRAH) - ותראה
And let appear. [Genesis 1:9](https://biblehub.com/genesis/1-9.htm): *"And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place, **and let** the dry land **appear**: and it was so."*

---

### [wehanishaarim](/keys/VHNShARIM) - והנשארים
And the remainder. [Genesis 14:10](https://biblehub.com/genesis/14-10.htm): *"And the vale of Siddim was full of slimepits; and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled, and fell there; **and they that remained** fled to the mountain."*

---

### [watedaber](/keys/VThDBR) - ותדבר
And she spoke. [Genesis 39:17](https://biblehub.com/genesis/39-17.htm): *"**And she spake** unto him according to these words, saying, The Hebrew servant, which thou hast brought unto us, came in unto me to mock me"*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Zeus](/greek?word=zeus) (Gr)
> Greek God.
