## 620 - Six Hundred Twenty
> (4x5x31)

---

### [Kether](/keys/KThR) - כתר
> the Crown, of Primal Will. The alchemical Mercury or first principle, or sattvaguna, the "illumination material," or substance of enlightenment. Alchemical "first matter." See [21](21), [1032](1032), [157](157), [352](352), [507](507), [364](364), [602](602), [397](397), [736](736), [837](837), [583](583).

> *"The letters of this word form part of the doctrines of the Rosicrucian grade of Ipsissimus. They are as follows:*

> *"1) Kaph the Wheel of Fortune. All activity is spiritual activity, and the center of all spiritual activity is the One Self. The limitless light; condensing itself in a single point, begins a whirling motion. The small point is within. It is the point of consciousness, the center of expression for the One Identity. It is for every human being the point of contract with absolute first cause. The indivisible one depends on nothing whatever. It is itself does not act, but from it all action proceeds. There is no limitation to its power to initiate cycles of expression. Precedent does not restrict it. Conditions do not affect it. Contingencies do not modify it...*

> *"2) Tav The world. the world for any human being is really the projection on the screen of space and time, of mental imagery. This projection is from within outward. Self-consciousness is the lens through which absolute reality is projected as relative imagery. Happiness and freedom are ours to the extent that our personal world, or the projection of our personal interpretation of experience, coincides with the real world which is the expression of the One Identity...*

> *"3) Resh The Sun. When the conscious and subconscious phases of mentality are regenerated, or born anew, a human personalty becomes a radiant center through which the life-power manifest itself. the Ipsissimus knows that circumstances are the projections of his interpretation of reality. He has made this knowledge deep-rooted and permanent. Therefore his mode of life is incomprehensible to the merely natural man. He is a free channel for the expression of omnipotent spirit."* [[Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, pp.305-307](https://archive.org/stream/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985#page/n311)]. see [111](111), [149](149) (Latin).

> - As a verb, it is used in [Psalm 22:12](http://biblehub.com/psalms/22-12.htm): *"beset me round".*
> - Paul Case also gives [Psalm 142:7](http://biblehub.com/psalms/142-7.htm): *"Shall encompass me about"* (others shall crown, i.e. glorify, themselves with me).
> - Also [Proverbs 14:18](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/14-18.htm): וערומים יכתרו דעט, [va-awrumim yaktiru da'at](/keys/VORVMIM.IKThRV.DOTh), *"but the prudent are crowned with knowledge."*
> - [Judges 20:43](http://biblehub.com/judges/20-43.htm): כתרו, [kiteru](/keys/KThRV), to besiege .
> - [Habakkuk 1:4](http://biblehub.com/habakkuk/1-4.htm): *'compass about'*.
> - [Job 36:1](http://biblehub.com/job/36-1.htm): כתר לי, [kether-li](/keys/KThR-LI), suffer me. (only in Job is the form כתר used, having the same numeration as the noun.)
> - Also means כתר to surround; to wait, tarry; to crown.

> see [833](833), [557](557), [588](588), [727](727), [1238](1238), [1225](1225), [996](996), [696](696), [721](721), [559](559), [733](733), [391](391), [422](422), [616](616), [1239](1239), [617](617).

[The First Sephirah](1).

---

### [dorith](/keys/DVRITh) - דורית
> generations (special spelling). From the root דור, a revolution of time, an age, an aeon. The supernal is the origin of all generations.

---

### [zaphenath](/keys/TzPNTh) - צפנת
> thou hast laid up, savior. In [Psalm 31:19](http://biblehub.com/psalms/31:19.htm) it is a reference to accumulated treasures of goodness. The verb expresses activity, accumulation, addition, multiplication. This correlates with the idea of the Ace of Swords as a focus for the accumulated energy of the Limitless Light. It is a point at which diffused energy is concentrated in order to set up the whirling motion which is the basis of all form. Part of a name given to Joseph. [Genesis 41:45](http://biblehub.com/genesis/41-45.htm). Hebrew transliteration of an Egyptian meaning savior and refers to the salvation of the Egyptians from famine. The name given to Joseph, צפנת פענח, [Zaphenath-paneah](/keys/TzPNTh.PONCh), means Salvator mundi, or savior of the World. Joseph signifies addition or multiplication. see [156](156).

> To hide, to conceal, relates to the fact that the innermost will is truly occult or hidden. צפנת is related to the word צפון, [Tzaphon](/keys/TzPVN), north, about which it is said: 'gold comes from the north.' [Gematria of the Ten Sephiroth] see [226](226).

---

### [shawrim](/keys/ShORIM) - שערים
> gates, doors. The gates are the various points of entrance whereby the Limitless Light projects Itself into manifestation. Kether includes the potency of all these gates, whether [50](50), (Binah) or [231](231), and thus its action in Yetzirah denotes the beginning of the formative process and the totality of its expression through the other aspects depicted by the rest of the suit of Swords. see [231](231), [1180](1180).

---

### [Awshiram](/keys/OShIRM) - עשירם 
> Pluto.

---

### [Chokmah, Binah, va-Da'ath](/keys/ChKMH-BINH-VDOTh) - חכמה בינה ודעת
> Wisdom, Understanding and Knowledge. The first descending triad. The first two are the Sephiroth numbered 2 and 3 and Da'ath, Knowledge, is said to be the union of Chokmah and Binah. Thus Da'ath is a sort of reflection of Kether, and Kether is here shown as that which, in itself, is the potency of wisdom, understanding and knowledge. For Kether is the seed of the Tree of Life, and whatever emanates from the crown is in the Crown prior to emanating therefrom.

---

### [Mishpar](/keys/MShPR) - משפר
> Angle of the 3rd (Venus) decant of Virgo.

---

### [karath](/keys/KRTh) - כרת
> to cut off, to make a covenant. [Psalm 105:9](http://biblehub.com/psalms/105-9.htm): אשר כרת את-אברהם, [asher karath et-Abraham](/keys/AShR.KRTh.ATh-ABRHM), The covenant which we made with Abraham. Alludes to the cutting of victims offered for sacrifice when a covenant is made. Related to Kether, because the basic motion is separation from unity, into a point.

---

### [Zuri Shaddai](/keys/TzVRI.ShDI) - צורי שדי
> Rock of the Almighty.

---

### [rawshawim](/keys/RShOIM) - רשעים
> wicked men. *[Psalm 1:1](http://biblehub.com/text/psalms/1-1.htm)* and *[1:4](http://biblehub.com/text/psalms/1-4.htm)*. see [12](12), [21](21), [37](37), [157](157), [1032](1032), [501](501).

---

### [ruachoth](/keys/RVChVTh) - רוחות
> winds; breezes, airs, spirits, souls, minds. Used in [Psalm 104:4](http://biblehub.com/text/psalms/104-4.htm): *"Who makes winds, thy messengers, the flaming fire thy ministers"* (the King James version: Who maketh his angels spirits, his ministers a flaming fire )

See [214](214).

---

### [shashak](/keys/ShShK) - ששך
> [Temurah](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temurah_(Kabbalah)) of בבל, [Babel](/keys/BBL). [Jeremiah 25:26](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/25-26.htm), [51:41](http://biblehub.com/jeremiah/51:41.htm). And all the kings of the north, far and near, one with another, and all the kingdoms of the world, which are upon the face of the earth: and the king of Sheshach shall drink after them. (I took the cup at the Lord's hand, and made all the nations to drink) How is Sheshach taken! And how is the praise of the whole earth surprised! How is Babylon become an astonishment among the nations! see [34](34).

---

### [esrim](/keys/OShRIM) - עשרים
> twenty , value of Kaph, attributed to Jupiter. see [1180](1180).

---

### [ish saweh](/keys/AISh.ShDH) - איש שדה
> a man of the field , i.e. one living in the open country. [Genesis 25:27](http://biblehub.com/genesis/25-27.htm): *"And the boys grew: and Esau was a cunning [skillful] hunter, a man of the field; and Jacob was a plain man, dwelling in tents."* see [309](309), [376](376), [182](182).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Mitos](/greek?word=mitos) (Gr) - μιτος
> thread (a thread of the warp). A euphemism for Semen, as the link between one generation and the next. Related to the Hindu word sutratma, thread-soul.

---

### [Teleios](/greek?word=teleios) (Gr) - τελειος
> complete, ripe, matured. Used in the New Testament, [Matthew 5:48](http://biblehub.com/matthew/5-48.htm), in the sense of full maturity. Relative perfection is meant-including the notion of mental maturity. To arrive psychologically at Kether is to reach the highest point in Human attainment.

> [Matthew 5:48](http://biblehub.com/matthew/5-48.htm): *"Be perfect, therefore, as your heavenly Father is perfect."*

---

### [thysia](/greek?word=thusia) (Gr) - θυσια
> a sacrifice; the act and rite of sacrificing; as an expiation for sin, as in [Hebrews 10:26](http://biblehub.com/hebrews/10-26.htm) *"For if we should voluntarily sin after having received the knowledge of the truth, there is no longer a sacrifice for sins."* see [1924](1924), [1628](1628), [2294](2294), [2360](2360), [1620](1620), [2257](2257).

---

### See Also:

- [62](62)
- [8](8)
