## 639 - Six Hundred Thirty-Nine
> (2x11x29)

---

### [Etz ha-Daath](/keys/OTz.HDOTh) - עץ הדעת
> Tree of Knowledge. It is the Life-power within which directs the heat of the serpent-fire toward the goal symbolized by the white stone. This is accomplished by eating the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge. Notice that [639](639) reduces to [18](18) (Qoph, Pisces), then to [9](9), the value of Teth. see [600](600), [30](30), [9](9).

---

### [tzawphanethi + bawbah](/keys/TzPNThI.BBH) - צפנתי בבה
> I have laid up plus cavity, something hollowed out, the apple of the eye. The fiery Marsforce as it functions in Yetzirah, the formative world is the basis for the patterns which serve as a storehouse for wisdom. this is laid up in the cavity of the heart. see [630](630), [9](9).

---

### [sahraytawn + na'ar](/keys/SRTN.NOR) - סרטן נער
> crab plus boy. The adept protects and isolates himself from the illusions of his environment by using magical speech (sound vibration correlated with imagery). By this means he builds as indestructible body of light. The boy is the result-the awakened Ego-consciousness turning inward and eastward to Yekhidah in Kether. see [319](319), [320](320).

---

### [esrim ve-echad](/keys/OShRIM.VAChD) - עשרים ואחד
> twenty-one, 21; the number of the Tarot key corresponding to Tav, to Saturn and to the Administrative Intelligence at the center of the Cube of space. See [400](400), [713](713), [476](476); [1199](1199).

---

### [wayhi-terach](/keys/VIHI-ThRCh) - ויהי־תרח
and lived Terach. [Genesis 11:26](https://biblehub.com/genesis/11-26.htm): *"**And Terah lived** seventy years, and begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran"*

---

### See Also:

- [18](18)
- [9](9)
- [Bible Wheel: 888](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=888)
