## 656 - Six Hundred Fifty-Six
> (16x41) A pentagram between two hexagrams (6-5-6). Geometrical figures of initiation.

---

### [Mathnaztzo](/keys/MThNVTzO) - מתנוצע
> Resplendent. Intelligence of Malkuth. Represents the idea that man is the mediator and adaptor, set between infinite and eternal cosmic past, and the infinite and eternal cosmic future. see [1006](1006), [496](496), [65](65). From the verb [nawtzatz](/keys/NTzTz) [נצץ], to glitter, to bloom, to flower. Malkuth is often called the flower of the Tree. May also be understood as the "Blossoming Intelligence." see [1026](1026), [230](230), [496](496), [570](570).

> *"By Tarot, מתנוצע, "[resplendent](/keys/MThNVTzO)", is the sequence: The Hanged Man (Mem); the World (Tav); Death (Nun); The Hierophant (Vav); the Star (Tzaddi); the Devil (Ayin). From these keys of the Rosicrucian Rota are derived the 6 initiatory truths, which are:*

> - *1) The [Hanged Man](/keys/M), [Key 12](12) (Mem): Every human personality is absolutely and unqualified dependence upon the universal existence...*
> - *2) [The World](/keys/Th), [Key 21](21) (Tav): The universe is an orderly, rhythmic manifestation of life, determined by fixed laws...*
> - *3) [Death](/keys/N), [Key 13](13) (Nun). The dissolution of physical bodies is a necessary and beneficent manifestation of life, but is not the cessation of self-conscious existence...*
> - *4) The [Hierophant](/keys/V), [Key 5](5) (Vav): The self of man is a life which includes a consciousness above man's personal intellectual level is the birthright of every human being...*
> - *5) [The Star](/keys/Tz), [Key 17](17) (Tzaddi): Nature unveils herself to man when man practices right meditation...*
> - *6) [The Devil](/keys/O), [Key 15](15) (Ayin): Evil is the appearance presented to us by natural processes which we do not understand. It is the veil of terror hiding the beautiful countenance of truth."*

> [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), pp.268-272]

---

### [thanoor](/keys/ThNVR) - תנור
> Furnace. The symbol for the human body. Origin of the alchemical term Athanor, defined as *"a self-feeding, digesting furnace, wherein the fire burns at an even heat."* Its fire is the fire of life, and this is the fire which the Zealator or alchemist's assistant, keeps burning. see [662](662), [85](85) (Latin).

> Also תנור an oven (Aramaic תנורא, Septuagint). [Leviticus 2:4](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/2-4.htm) *"... an oblation of a meat offering, baked in an oven..."* Observe that נור (Aramaic for fire) + Tav (Saturn).

---

### [shoshan](/keys/ShVShN) - שושן
> rose. (the lexicon gives "lily". but in [Canticles 2:1](http://biblehub.com/songs/2-1.htm) *"I am the rose of Sharon and the lily of the valleys"* This word is used in the feminine plural, ShVShNTh). see [1617](1617). The rose is a symbol of the human soul, or air and of aspiration. see [661](661), [1056](1056), [1617](1617), [1071](1071).

---

### [sahsone](/keys/ShShVN) - ששון
> delight, joy; exultation, rejoicing. From Hebrew lexicon סמן ששון, "[oil of joy](/keys/SMN.ShShVN)", oil used for anointing on joyous occasion.

---

### [ertz neshayah](/keys/ARTz.NShIH) - ארץ נשיה
> land of forgetfulness. [Psalm 88:12](http://biblehub.com/psalms/88-12.htm) *"Shall thy wonders be known in the dark? And thy righteousness in the land of forgetfulness"*. Under [365](365) Paul Case credits נשיה [neshayah](/keys/NShIH) to "Earth of Tiphareth". It is also "pasture land, on the 7 earths". see [658](658).

> Man forgets the righteousness of the Ego, veiled by the physical plane. see [291](291), [482](482) (Greek).

---

### [geliy meod bath Tzion](/keys/GILI.MAD.BTh-TzIVN) - גילי מאד בת־ציון
> rejoice greatly, daughter of Zion. [Zechariah 9:9](http://biblehub.com/zechariah/9-9.htm). This verse refers to the king which is coming: "He is just and having salvation" (i.e. Tiphareth). Note that "rejoice"; גילי is [53](53), the value of אבן. see [53](53), [45](45), [402](402), [156](156).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Messias](/greek?word=messias) (Gr) - Μεσσιας
> The Anointed. A title of Jesus. see [644](644), [1768](1768), [1480](1480), [1408](1408), [1844](1844), [888](888), [358](358), [2183](2183), [2220](2220).

---

### [aleuron](/greek?word=aleuron) (Gr) - Μεσσιας
> meal. [Matthew 13:33](http://biblehub.com/matthew/13-33.htm): *"The kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven, which a woman took, and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened."* The "meal" is leavened in the "furnace". see [148](148), [507](507), [889](889), [1919](1919) (Greek).

---

### [Ephraim](/greek?word=ephraim) (Gr) - Εφραιμ
> "A double fruit"; fruitful. Septuagint translation of אפרים ([331](331)) in [Genesis 48:20](http://biblehub.com/genesis/48-20.htm) *"In your name will Israel pronounce the blessing: 'May God make you like Ephraim and Manasseh! so he put Ephraim ahead of Manasseh."* Tribe of Israel corresponding to Taurus, and to alchemical congelation.

---

### [Artemis](/greek?word=artemis) (Gr) - Ἄρτεμις
Artemis. *"...was one of the most widely venerated of the Ancient Greek deities. Her Roman equivalent is Diana.... In the classical period of Greek mythology, Artemis was often described as the daughter of Zeus and Leto, and the twin sister of Apollo. She was the Hellenic goddess of the hunt, wild animals, wilderness, childbirth, virginity and protector of young girls, bringing and relieving disease in women; she often was depicted as a huntress carrying a bow and arrows."* [[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artemis)]

[Acts 19:28](http://biblehub.com/acts/19-28.htm): *"When they heard this they were filled with anger, and cried out, saying, 'Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!'
"*


### See Also:

- [17](17)
- [8](8)
- [BibleWheel Gematria: 656](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=656)
