## 660 - Six Hundred Sixty
> (3x4x5x11)

---

### [eth-haowr ki-tob](/keys/ATh-HAVR.KI-TVB) - את־האור כי־טוב
THE LIGHT AS GOOD. [Genesis 1:4](https://biblehub.com/genesis/1-4.htm): *"And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness."*

---

### [sawther](/keys/SThR) - סתר
> (verb) to hide, to veil, to cover, to conceal. Root of Nesether (NSThR), Intelligence of Netzach. The powers of this path are hidden from the eye of sense and beheld by the "eye of faith." see [710](710), [1060](1060).

---

### [yawmim](/keys/IMIMf) - ימים
> days, seas, times. See [100](100).

---

### [kaylim](/keys/KLIMf) - כלים
> vases, utensils; weapons. See [100](100).

---

### [sahm](/keys/SMf) - סם
> spice; drug; poison. Only in plural, SMIM, "sweet spices" in [Exodus 30:34](http://biblehub.com/exodus/30-34.htm): *"And the Lord said to Moses, "Take sweet spices; stacte, onychia and galbanum; sweet spices with pure incense; of each shall there by equal weight; (35) and you shall make it a perfume..."*

> Of this root, Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"SM. the circumferential sign being universalized by the collective sign Mem, becomes the symbol of the olfactory sphere, of every fragrant influence given to the air, thence SM, every king of aromatic. The Arabic [word] appears to have preserved more of the development and even more of the radical force than the Hebraic analogue. This root characterizes that which is penetrated with force whether good or evil. Thence, in the modern idiom the verb... which signifies to bore, a mole, to pierce."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.410] [Mem = 600] see [100](100).

---

### [segeg ve-masayggeh](/keys/ShGG.VMShGH) - שגג ומשגה
> the erring and the seducer. [Job 12:16] "With him is strength, and wisdom; the deceived and the deceiver are his" (the Lord's). see [306](306), [311](311).

---

### [thinar](/keys/ThINR) - תינר
> Given without comment in [Sepher Sephiroth, p.57]. see [250](250).

> Fabre D'Olivet comments on the first two letters: *"ThH [analogous of ThI]. root analogous to the root ThA [Every idea of determination, designation, definition]; but whose expression, more moral, characterizes the influential and sympathetic reason of things. Arabic [word] signifies literally to be led astray, lost in empty space. By the compound [Arabic word] a vain thing; by the verb... a thing which is liquefied."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp. 404]

> Of the root NR which characterizes the second half of this word he says: *"The root AVR, united by contraction to the sign of produced existence, constitute a root whose purpose is to characterize that which propagates light, literally as well as figuratively: thence, NR, a lamp, a beacon, a torch: a sage, a guide; that which enlightens, shines, is radiant: metaphorically, a public festivity, an extreme gladness. The Arabic [word] signifies literally, fire."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 467]

> The letters of this word suggest the power of contraction or limitation (Tav) of divine will (Yod) through reproductive force (Nun) and solar regenerative energy (Resh).

---

### [qol takaenuni](/keys/QVL.ThChNVNI) - קול תחנוני
> the voice of my supplications. [Psalm 130:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-2.htm): *"Lord, hear my voice: let thine ears be attentive to the voice of my supplications."* see [4006](4006) (Greek).

---

### [ayth qaytz](/keys/OTh.QTz) - עת קץ
> The time of the end. Note: QTz in the Hebrew lexicon is given as meaning "the time of redemption, the Messianic age."

---

### [Nitzizith](/keys/NITzITzITh) - ניציצית
> sparks. [The Hebrew lexicon gives the feminine plural as NITzVTzVTh these are the divine sparks, or Yods of radiant solar energy manifest as light but hidden in their essence from the eyes of the profane. When fully evolved, these sparks become the "sons and daughters of the most high", i.e. human souls.

> Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. pp.571-578] calls this word scintillae, and in a long discourse of 26 sections goes into great detail on its various attributions. He relates them, among other things, to the Briatic "lights", and shows their grades of descending influence, in an elaborate table, as aspects of Tetragrammaton.

---

### [kesherin](/keys/QShRIN) - קשרין
> connection; zones, members, knots [IRQ:999] *"In the first arm (otherwise in the holy arm) [of Microprosopus] these members (or divisions) are bound together."* Note: as in the arm there are three natural divisions, from shoulder to elbow, from elbow to wrist and from wrists to the tips of the fingers. The word קשרין, here translated "members", means, properly speaking, "zones". Here we may infer that this gematria suggest that the hidden zones of the "sparks" in the holy mountain are to lighted by the delivery of the "seed of the righteous".

> [beginning of text missing] "Though hand join in hand, the wicked shall not be unpunished..." Paul case notes: NMLTh, to be delivered, to be saved, to slip away, to escape if from MLTh, to be smooth, to be slippery. Here there is more than meets the hasty eye!"

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [eklektois](/greek?word=eklektois) - ἐκλεκτοῖς
> chosen. Septuagint translation of BChIR in [Psalm 89:3](https://biblehub.com/psalms/89-3.htm) ([LXX](https://biblehub.com/sepd/psalms/89.htm)): *"You said I have made a covenant with my chosen one, I have sworn to David my servant, (4) I will establish your line forever and make your throne firm through all generations."* In this instance the "throne" alludes to the Mercury center; David means beloved. see [14](14), [499](499), [220](220), [540](540) (Greek). The chosen one has been re-generated.

---

### [muron](/greek?word=muron) (Gr) - μύρον
Oil. [Psalm 133:2](https://biblehub.com/psalms/133-2.htm) ([LXX](https://biblehub.com/sepd/psalms/133.htm)) Septuagint translation of ShMV ([390](390), [395](395)). *"It is like precious oil poured upon the head, running down on the beard, running down on Aaron's beard, down upon the collar of his robes."*

---

### See Also:

- [66](66)
- [12](12)
- [3](3)
- [BibleWheel: Gematria](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=660)
