661 (prime)
AMRThK emrawthaka. thy word [Psalm 119:11].
ASM awsam. a granary or storehouse. [Mem = 600] see 101.
BLHThIHM belahatahem. By their secret arts, by their
enchantments [Exodus 7:11]. see 101.
ChLLH IDV NChSh BRCh kellah yado nachash beruach. his hand has
formed the crooked serpent [Job 26:13]. in the Jewish translation
it is "the hand has pierce the crooked serpent." This is in
direct correspondence with the letter-name ThITh, Teth. see 418,
358, 20. Yod, the creative hand forms this energy in various ways
and pierces its lower expressions, to be used in the birth of new
ones. see 1885.
SVD HPOLVTh sod ha-pehulloth. Secret works. Designates the 19th
Path of Teth. "The 19th path is called the intelligence of the
Secret of all Spiritual Activities. It is called because of the
influence spread by it from the supreme blessing and the supernal
glory. (blessing and glory refer to Chesed). see 667, 1502.
ShVShNH shoshannah. a lily (white); a lily ornament, a rose
(late use). Also: a lily ornament in architecture, a tubular
trumpet (from its shape). Many Qabalists translate this as rose
and refer it to Malkuth. This influence may be traced in several
Rosicrucian texts. The [Zohar, Vol. 1, page 3] says, ShVShNH
symbolizes the community of Israel. It is also a symbol of the
cup of benediction. see 656.
Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.708] says this word, in the feminine
gender is Malkuth, since it contains red and white colors, which
indicate stimulations from the right and left sides [i.e. the
pillars of Mercy and Severity on the Tree]; and that in the Zohar
section beresheth speaks of the rose having 13 leaves or petals.
This refers to Malkuth having 13 kinds of mercy, because it
splendors [i.e. The Resplendent Intelligence] are said to be a
rose.
ThVRH HADM torah ha-adam. the law of Adam (Humanity), the manner
of Humanity, the coming generations of men. [2 Samuel 7:19] "And
this was yet a small thing in the sight, O Lord God; but thou has
spoken also of thy servant's house for a great while to come. And
is this the manner of man, O Lord God? This is the authorized
version translation. In the American translators render it "the
coming generations of men" to make it agree with the context. It
has to do with the law of humanity which is the secret of works,
and which give the foresight suggested by the Bible passage.
KI-LQCh AThV ALHIM ki-lawqah otho Elohim. for Elohim took him, .
[Genesis 5:24] "And Enoch walked with the Elohim, and we was not,
for Elohim took him." see 84, 1831.
IShThVLVSh Ishtolosh. Day demon of the 3rd decanate of Pisces.
The name of the demon suggest the powers of personal will (Yod)
which burns and transforms personality (Shin) by diverting the
serpent power (Teth) through psychic receptivity (Vav), resulting
in misguided action (Lamed), falsely linked (Vav) to the Holy
Spirit (Shin). This decanate ruled by Mars and has the qualities:
vigilant, cordial, suave. The influence of the demon suggest
conscious imbalance, resulting in negative aspect of these
qualities. The 3rd decanate is also attributed to the 10 of Cups
in the Tarot Minor Arcana. This corresponds to influence between
experience in the world and creative thoughts and images. When
negatively aspected, as here, this can indicate danger from
psychism; probability of being injured mentally through unwise
attempts at meditation, in spiritual questions; otherwise the
danger of self-undoing from psychism; prodigality; possibility of
being influenced by others though the desire nature; tendency to
drug habits and drunkenness; disgust resulting form overindulgence;
exist in pleasure. The remedy is to overthrow errors
in conscious thinking, purify and transmute the physical body to
serve as a instrument for the expression of spiritual powers.