## 664 - Six Hundred Sixty-Four
> (8x83)

### [IHVH tzuri aor ha-yeqod](/keys/IHVH.TzVRI.AVR.HIQVD) - יהוה צורי אור היקוד
> Tetagrammaton my rock plus the burning light. The rock is the Stone, which burns with the light of illuminated consciousness. see [332](332).

### [Sodom](/keys/SDMf) - סדם
> Sodom; "burning, conflagration". The Biblical city which was destroyed by God because of its perversity. The come combines Samekh = alchemical incineration (162) to DM, blood. see [44](44), [60](60), [108](108).

> [Genesis 18:26](http://biblehub.com/genesis/18-26.htm) *"And the Lord said, 'If I find in Sodom 50 righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sakes."* Note that 50 = Nun, the "fish", which is hooked by Tzaddi, and burned by Samekh. It also represents transformation, and represents Fire in alchemy. [Mem = 600] see 104, [50](50), [106](106), [700](700), [385](385) (Greek).

### [Nacham](/keys/NChVMf) - נחום
> Nahum, "comfort"; one of the minor prophets. In [Nahum 1:1](http://biblehub.com/nahum/1-1.htm) *"The wound of Ninevah, which is in the book of the visions, of Nahum the Alkoshite."* [Mem = 600]

> Of his prophecy it is said: *"The striking pecuniary of Nahum's thought is its fixed gaze on the enemies of God's chosen people. The prophet evidently has no fear for the people themselves. At all events, he alludes neither to their sin nor to any impending wrath to be visited upon them. Presumably, the destruction of Assyria meant to him the deliverance of Israel from a source of distress and a menacing danger."* [Standard Bible Dictionary, p.604]

## Greek/Latin

### [status unionis habitualis et actualis transformationis animae in Deum](/latin?word=status+unionis+habitualis+et+actualis+transformationis+animae+in+Deum)
"The habitual state of the union, and actual transformation of God". [Google Translate](https://translate.google.com/#view=home&op=translate&sl=auto&tl=en&text=status%20unionis%20habitualis%20et%20actualis%20transformationis%20animae%20in%20Deum). [Notre Dame](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=status%20unionis%20habitualis%20et%20actualis%20transformationis%20animae%20in%20Deum)

A.E. Waite, Introduction to [Cloud Upon the Sanctuary](https://archive.org/details/clouduponsanctua00ecka/page/n28?admin=1): *"It seems to me also that it translates itself readily into the normal mind as a stage of that higher condition--highest indeed of all--the **status unionis habitualis et actualis transformationis animae in Deum."*