## 667 - Six Hundred Sixty-Seven.
> (23x29)

---

### [shemen le-mawaur](/keys/ShMN.LMAVR) - שמן למאור
> "oil for lighting." The lamps are the interior starts or chakras. The oil is the nerve force, a modification of Kundalini (which is the esoteric "coiled fiery power" or astral light). The oil is made to energize the lamps by means of exercise in which counting is essential, because they include rhythmic breathing, rhythmic intonation of divine names, etc. see [412](412), [390](390), [207](207).

---

### [sod hapehuloth](/keys/SVD.HPOVLVTh) - סוד הפעולות
> Secret of all spiritual activities. The [19th Path](19) of Teth. see [1502](1502), [206](206), [409](409), [380](380), [358](358), [661](661).

---

### [Hua galah omikatha](/keys/HVA.GLA.OMIQThA) - הוא גלא עמיקתא
> He reveals the depths (the unfathomable things). For those who know the secret of the lighting of the oil. see [38](38).

> (beginning of text missing) [Isaiah 40:26](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/40-26.htm) *"Lift up your eyes on high, and behold how has created these things, that brings out their host by number: he calls them all by names by the greatness of his might, for that he is strong in power; not one fails."*

> [Zohar I, p.8] *"'He who' expresses something definite and absolute a being universally recollected and without equal... 'by number' [382]: six hundred thousand are they, and they have produced according to their kinds beyond all number. 'All of them', whether the six hundred thousand or the rest of the hosts, 'he calls by name'... He proclaimed his own name so as to bring about the emergence of each sort of being in its full form... further, the words 'by the abundance of powers'"* ([Isaiah 40:26](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/40-26.htm)) refers to the supreme grade where to all the ?dolstions? ascend by a mysterious path. 'And mighty of strength': the word 'strength' (KCh) symbolizes the supernal world which assumed the name Elohim... 'No one is missing' of the six hundred thousand which energized by the power of the name." see [600](600), [1000](1000).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Arphaxad](/greek?word=arphaxad) (Gr) - Ἀρφαξὰδ
[Arphaxad](/keys/ARPKShD). (greek spelling), son of [Shem](/keys/ShM). see [605](605). [Luke 3:36](https://biblehub.com/luke/3-36.htm): *"Which was the son of Cainan, which was the son of **Arphaxad**, which was the son of Sem, which was the son of Noe, which was the son of Lamech"*.

---

### See Also:

- [19](19)
- [10](10)
- [1](1)
- [Bible Wheel: 667](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=667)
