## 671 - Six Hundred Seventy-One
> (11x61)

---

### [Adonai](/keys/ALP.DLTh.NVN.IVD) - אלף דלת נון יוד
> [Adonai](/keys/ADNI), spelt in full. Divine name of Malkuth. see [65](65), [55](55), [95](95). [20th Communication]:

> > *"Now the name Adonai in Hebrew numeration is [65](65), but written in full it is ALP DLTh NVN IVD and the value of this is 671, which is also the value of ThROA the gate, one of the names for Malkuth, to which Sephirah the name Adonai Melek is assigned. See now, Malkuth is the Bride, and to her is properly assigned the one name Adonai. Yet is this name always combined with Melek which is specially assigned to Tiphareth the Son. Thus the hidden knowledge in the name of Adonai, which is the particular object of quest in one grade of our Order, is indicated as being something having to do with the union of the Son and the Bride. The Bride is the breaker of the foundations, and to her the body, Guph, is attributed. The Son is the Central Self, not the indivisible Yekidah in Kether, but the Ego in Tiphareth. The hidden knowledge is really in Yesod, for it is in Yesod that the Bride and the Son are combined. Thus in the grade we have mentioned, the aspirant seeks, but has not yet attained the knowledge. That is the DOTh, Da'ath, which is that of which it is written: "In Da'ath shall all the secret places be filled." The secret places are in Yesod. Yet must he know from whence he comes, and until he recognizes this, he cannot go on to the discovery of the knowledge to which he aspires.*

> > *He may endeavor to follow the Path of Good, but he is faced with the fact that he cannot surely define "The Good." Or he may, if he has sufficient temerity, essay the Path of Evil, but here the same ignorance turns him back, for in that ignorance, even his will to "Evil" may be adulterated by some inadvertent invasion of good. The point of this is, that at the beginning of the way the aspirant simply does not know what is good or what is evil. Unfortunately he usually has some very strong convictions as to good or evil, and these have little foundation in fact. Thus in the grade of our Order which concerns itself with the passage from Malkuth to Yesod, through the Path of Tav, one learns that the name of Adonai spelt in full, is the same as one of the names of Malkuth. To make it clear that the keys to the hidden knowledge are already in our possession, one clue is the echoing answer "I come from between the two pillars." For this is fact. Even a physical fact, which many who aspire to occult knowledge find it convenient to forget."*

---

### [AOM](/keys/AOMf) - אעם
> [Mem = 600]. Aleph-Ayin-Mem. Variant of the Hindu pranava Aum and of α = beginning, μ = middle and Ω = end. Said to be a veil for the wheel of the Law, ROTA. see [111](111), [851](851).

---

### [Ertez Mizaim](/keys/ARTz.MTzRIM) - ארץ מצרים
> Land of Egypt. This confirms what has been said of Malkuth and its relations to "Egypt". [Deuteronomy 15:15](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/15-15.htm): *"And thou shalt remember that thou was a bondman in the land of Egypt, and the Lord thy God redeemed thee."*

---

### [bekol-har qahdeshi](/keys/BKL-HR.QDShI) - בכל־הר קדשי
> In all my holy mountain. [Isaiah 65:25](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/65-25.htm): *"The Wolf and Lamb will feed together, and the lion and will eat straw like an ox, but dust will be the serpent's food. They will neither harm nor destroy on all my holy mountain."* see [3804](3804) (Greek).

---

### [geburathekem](/keys/GBVRThKM) - גבורתכם
> your strength. Intelligence of Daath. [Isaiah 30:15](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/30-15.htm): *"This is what the Lord, God the Holy One of Israel, says: In returning to Me and resting in Me you shall be saved: in quietness and in (trusting) confidence shall be your strength..."* see [1231](1231).

---

### [weba'ehbanim](/keys/VBABNIMf) - ובאבנים
> and in (vessels of) stone. Spirits (of Daath). [Exodus 7:20](http://biblehub.com/exodus/7-20.htm): *"Stretch out thy hand upon the waters of Egypt...that there may be blood throughout all the land of Egypt, both in vessels of wood, and in vessels of stone."* see [111](111).

---

### [seim](/keys/SAIMf) - סאים
> a dry measure for grain (1/3 of an epha). see [111](111). [Isaiah 27:8](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/27-8.htm) *"In measure when it shoots forth [i.e. the blossoming of Israel], thou will debate with it: he stays his rough wind in the day of the east wind."*

---

### [osah periy](/keys/OVShH.PRI) - עושה פרי
> bearing (producing, making) fruit. see [290](290), [160](160), [450](450).

---

### [Rota](/keys/ROThA) - רעתא
> Wheel. The cosmic wheel of manifestation. The hidden name of the Tarot. see [48](48) (Latin).

---

### [Taro](/keys/ThARO) - תארע
> The "wheel" of Tarot, which speaks the law of Hathor (mother nature) in this Latin phrase: Rota Taro Orat Tora Ator. see [48](48) (Latin).

---

### [Torah](/keys/ThORA) - תערא
> the Law; as that given to Moses by God.

---

### [Throa](/keys/ThROA) - תרעא
> The Gate (Aramaic title of Malkuth). It is the gate for the influx of spirit, manifesting into name and form, and originating in the higher 'gate' or [50](50) gates of Binah, the mother through the door of Daleth.

---

### [nepith apim](/keys/NPITh.APIM) - נפית אפים
> "fallen on their faces."

---

### [asthir](/keys/ASThIR) - אסתיר
> I will hide.

---

### [wataharena](/keys/VThHRIN) - ותהרין
and conceived. [Genesis 19:36](https://biblehub.com/genesis/19-36.htm): *"**Thus were** both the daughters of Lot **with child** by their father."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Artos](/greek?word=artos) (Gr) - ἄρτος
> Bread. [John 6:35](http://biblehub.com/john/6-35.htm): *"And Jesus said unto them, I am the **bread** of life: he that cometh to me shall never hunger; and he that believeth on me shall never thirst."*

> This word should be carefully considered in connection with the rest of this section. In the relation between "bread" and "bearing fruit" the discerning student should find food for thought for the explanation of "our daily bread" in the Lord's prayer. see [78](78), [450](450), [181](181), [3254](3254). See parable of the loaves and fishes in the Bible [Matthew 14:17, 15:24](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Matthew+14%3A17%2C+15%3A24&version=AKJV;SBLGNT), and note, [581](581), [741](741), [1995](1995), [1071](1071), [1443](1443).

---

### [Paradeisos](/greek?word=paradeisos) (Gr) - παράδεισος
Paradise; A park or pleasure ground. Used in the [Septuagint](https://www.blueletterbible.org/lxx/gen/2/8/s_2008) for the [Garden of Eden](https://biblehub.com/interlinear/apostolic/genesis/2.htm). See also:

- [paradeison](/greek?word=paradeison) (παράδεισον) ([521](521))
- [paradeisou](/greek?word=paradeisou) (παραδείσου) ([871](871))
- [paradeisOi](/greek?word=paradeisOi) (παραδείσῳ) ([1211](1211))

---

### [baptisthenai](/greek?word=baptisthhnai) (Gr) - βαπτισθῆναι
to be baptized. [Matthew 3:13](https://biblehub.com/matthew/3-13.htm): *"Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to Jordan unto John, **to be baptized** of him"*

---

### See Also:

- [14](14)
- [5](5)
- [Bible Wheel: 671](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=671)
