## 676 - Six Hundred Seventy-Six
> (26x26)

---

### [Mathnutzetz](/keys/MThNVTzTz) - מתנוצץ
> Resplendent, dazzling. The 10th Path of Malkuth. Godwin's spelling. see [656](656), [1026](1026), [230](230), [496](496), [570](570).

---

### [galgalim](/keys/GLGLIMf) - גלגלים
> whirlings, whirling motion (Mem = 600). galgalim is term for the sum total of the manifestations of the cosmic forces which have their beginning in Kether. The Path of Malkuth in any world is always a receptacle for the total forces and activities expressed by that world. Thus the primal formative forces corresponding to Kether in Yetzirah, and the formative powers of Ruach which express through man as his dominion over all that is below. see [116](116), [1032](1032).

---

### [erath](/keys/ORVTh) - ערות
> Nakedness; shame, ignominy [Genesis 9:22](http://biblehub.com/genesis/9-22.htm). The external genitals of either sex. Refers to the "nakedness" of Noah, or the Hidden potencies of undifferentiated substance. This word, in its various Hebrew meanings, is one of the most important parts of this gematria. see [936](936), [58](58), [48](48).

---

### [Qehal Israel](/keys/QHL.IShRAL) - קהל ישראל
> Congregation of Israel. [Deuteronomy 31:30](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/31-30.htm): *"And Moses spoke in the ears of all the congregation of Israel the words of this song, until they were ended."* These are company or assembly of those who rule as God. see [312](312), [441](441).

---

### [raooth](/keys/ROVTh) - רעות
> thought, stirring, feeding upon, reflection; feminine companion; pursuit, striving (feminine noun). The masculine noun means: friendship, companion, comradeship. Malkuth is the feminine counterpart of Kether, feeding upon the thought of the primal will, as the bride, she has overcome the obstacles of "nakedness", bringing friendship.

---

### [tawmim pawalo](/keys/ThMIM.POLV) - תמים פעלו
> His work is perfect. [Deuteronomy 32:4](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/32-4.htm): *"He is the rock, his work is perfect: for all his ways are judgement: a God of truth and without iniquity, just and right is He."*

---

### [Othur](/keys/OThVR) - עתור
> Lesser angle governing triplicity by day of Aquarius. The bride in Malkuth is also the kneeling woman in Key 17, the key of Meditation and revelation of truth. This "nakedness" is without shame. Saturn and Uranus rule Aquarius, suggesting that unveiled truth brings the dominion of Key 21 and the spirit of adventure in Key 0.

---

### [wayimah et-kal-hayqum](/keys/VIMCh.ATh-KL-HIQVM) - וימח את־כל־היקום
And every living substance was destroyed. [Genesis 7:23](https://biblehub.com/genesis/7-23.htm): *"**And every living substance was destroyed** which was upon the face of the ground, both man, and cattle, and the creeping things, and the fowl of the heaven; and they were destroyed from the earth: and Noah only remained alive, and they that were with him in the ark."*

---

### [tar'ayu](/keys/ThROV) - תרעו
Act so wickedly. [Genesis 19:7](https://biblehub.com/genesis/19-7.htm): *"And said, I pray you, brethren, do not so wickedly."*

---

### [wate'ar](/keys/VThOR) -  ותער
And emptied. [Genesis 24:20](https://biblehub.com/genesis/24-20.htm): *"And she hasted, **and emptied** her pitcher into the trough, and ran again unto the well to draw water, and drew for all his camels."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Lamech](/greek?word=lamech) (Gr) - Λαμεχ
> "Powerful". Lamech, the Father of Noah, and the traditional founder of Masonry. Note that its Hebrew form LMK, is a metathesis of MLK, King. Alchemical Water is related to things having to do with creation and construction-with the building of form.

---

### [Elymas](/greek?word=elumas) (Gr) - Ἐλύμας
> A magician, a Jew and a false prophet [Acts 13:8](http://biblehub.com/acts/13-8.htm): *"But Elymas the sorcerer (for so is his name by interpretation) withstood them, seeking to turn away the deputy from the faith."*

---

### See Also:

- [19](19)
- [10](10)
- [1](1)
- [Bible Wheel: 888](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=888)
