## 69 - Sixty-Nine
[3](3)x[23](23). Length of the Hidden Paths corresponding to √7 on the Tree of Life when Aleph=26: 1-7, 1-8, 2-8, 2-9, 3-7, 3-9, 4-10, 5-10.

---

### [Vacabiel](/keys/VKBIAL) - וכביאל
> Lesser assistant angel of the sign of Pisces in the zodiac. [In joint rule with Rasamasa, another Genius-E. Levi, Transcendental Magic} Pisces is attributed to alchemical multiplication, to sleep, and to the Corporeal Intelligence, which organizes the body cells into the new image.

---

### [tin](/keys/TIN) - טין
> miry, common. spelled טינא (Aramaic) in *[Daniel 2:41] "And whereas thou sawest the feet and toes, part of potters clay, and part of iron, the kingdom shall be divided; but there shall be in it of the strength of the iron, for as much as thou sawest the iron mixed with miry clay."* see [719](719), [28](28).

Could the Alchemical metal of Jupiter, "tin", be a reference to this word and the number 69? Sagittarius, ruled by Jupiter, occupies the path of Samekh which connects Sephiroth 6 (Tiphareth) to 9 (Yesod). Yesod is colored purple, the color of Jupiter. Could it also be a reference to the "hidden" paths of 2-9 and 3-9, which have a value of 69? Since Yesod is the Sphere of the Moon, perhaps it is a "sin" ([set](/keys/ST)) to mistake it for Jupiter. Certainly in Daniel's dream above it is a "sin" to erect a giant statue using a clay/iron mixture for its feet.

---

### [set](/keys/ST) - סט
> transgression; error, sin. Written סטים in [Psalm 101:3](http://biblehub.com/psalms/101-3.htm): *"I will set before my eyes no vile thing. I hate to commit transgression [סטים]; They will not cling to me."*

> Fabre D'Olivet writes: *"סט. Root not used in Hebrew. The Arabic [word] characterizes in general, a vehement, illegal action. The compound verb [Arabic word] signifies literally to command with arrogance, to act like a despot."* [Hebrew Tongue Restored p. 408](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/408)

---

### [Haedas](/keys/HDS). - הדס
> Myrtle; considered as sacred to Venus by the ancients. [Isaiah 41:19](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/41-19.htm) *"I will put in the desert the Cedar and the Acacia, the Myrtle and the Olive. I will set pines in the wasteland, the fir and the cypress together."*

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### Diabolos (Lt)
> Devil; slanderer.

---

### English Gematria:

- [Stone](/english?word=Stone) *([Fama Intro p.14](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n14))*. see [221](221) ([Philosophers Stone](/english?word=Philosophers+Stone))
- [Egypt](/english?word=Egypt) *([Fama p.5](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/5))*

---

### See Also:

- [15](15)
- [6](6)
