## 690 - Six Hundred Ninety
> (2x3x5x23)

### [menorath](/keys/MNRTh) - מנרת
> the candlestick. variant spelling. [Exodus 25:31](http://biblehub.com/exodus/25-31.htm): *"And thou shall make a candlestick of pure gold: of beaten work shall the candle stick be made: his shaft, and his branches, his bowls, his knops, and his flowers, shall be of the same."* The "lampstand" is the spinal cord, containing the "lamps" or interior stars. see [301](301), [14](14), [1141](1141) (Greek).

### [tomerim](/keys/ThMRIM) - תמרים
> palm trees. [Ezekiel 40:16](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/40-16.htm): *"And there were narrow windows to the little chambers, and to their post within the gate round about, and likewise to the arches: and windows were round about inward: and upon each post were palm trees."* This is part of the description of a vision of the new temple and its gates as pomegranates are symbols of female reproduction, palm trees are symbols of male potency.

### [sullawm](/keys/SLM) - סלם
> a ladder; specifically the ladder mentioned in Jacob's dream, in [Genesis 28:12](http://biblehub.com/genesis/28-12.htm): *"And he dreamed, and behold a ladder was set upon the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven; and behold the angels of God were ascending and descending on it."* Compare with the Tree of Life which is a ladder with rings, or a staircase with graded steps of consciousness. [Mem = 600] see [130](130).

> Gaskel suggest that Jacob's ladder is *"A symbol of the soul's path from the lower nature (earth) to the higher nature (Heaven). the 'angels' ascending are the aspiration, and those descending are the divine responses to the soul. 'Jacob' represents the natural man turning to the Lordthe ideal within. He sleeps upon a stone, that is, he relies upon the spirit within."* [Dictionary of All scriptures and Myths, p.439]

### [Nemem](/keys/NMM) - נמם
> 57th name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the 3rd quinance of Taurus. "God praise worthy". Angel of 6 of Pentacles. [Mem = 600] see [130](130), [145](145).

## Greek/Latin:

### [si oculus tuus fuerit simplex totum corpus tuum lucidum erit](/latin?word=si+oculus+tuus+fuerit+simplex+totum+corpus+tuum+lucidum+erit) (Lt)
> [Luke 11:34](http://biblehub.com/luke/11-34.htm): *"therefore when thine eye is single, thy whole body also is full of light"*