## 700 - Seven Hundred
> (5x5x5x7)

---

### [Final Nun](/keys/Nf) - ן
> Meaning fish. Alchemist *"Would have known, also, that the meaning of the noun Nun, taken as a proper name, is 'perpetuity, eternity, or everlastingness'. And they would have known that the name 'Jesus' is merely a variant of Joshua, the successor of Moses, whose father was name Nun. The everlastingness... was unquestionably associated by the ancient Hebrews with ... procreative power... and it is an open secret that the mystery veiled by the letter of both Testaments.. is a mystery summed up in these words: generation and regeneration... Nun stands for the zodiacal sign Scorpio, which governs generation because it rules the reproductive function.. Scorpio, and is entitled 'death' because of the connection between Scorpio and the 8th house of the zodiac, termed 'the house of death'. Again, the 8th house is also the 'house of inheritance', and in all its meanings 'inheritance' signifies something transmitted by parents to offspring, so that it has a direct correspondence with the verbal meaning of Nun, 'to sprout'... That this wisdom is related to inheritance is not due to its being passed on from mouth to ear only, but also to the fact that is central mystery is a mystery of sex."* [The True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p. 44] see [1219](1219), [407](407) (Greek), [8](8).

> See also the parable of the loaves and fishes in the Bible [Matthew 14:17](http://biblehub.com/matthew/14-17.htm), [15:34](http://biblehub.com/matthew/15-34.htm) and note, [581](581).

> [beginning of text missing] *"God, in early times viewed as heron-like, later as like an eagle. He was worshiped especially at Heliopolis, and his periodical resurrection was viewed as a guarantee of the resurrection of the dead, who were hence regarded as phoenixes. Many legends of the life and resurrection of the phoenix developed. It was fabled to live for 500 years or longer, in Arabia, to be consumed in fire by its own act, and to rise in youthful freshness from its own ashes. Hence it is often an emblem of immortality."* N.B. Phoenix = eagle = Scorpio = Nun, "to sprout".

---

### [Kapporeth](/keys/KPRTh) - כפרת
> cover or lid to the Ark. Mercy seat [Exodus 25:17](http://biblehub.com/exodus/25-17.htm), [30:8](http://biblehub.com/exodus/30-8.htm), [3:7](http://biblehub.com/exodus/3-7.htm).

> These are all double letters, and follow the same order as in the Hebrew alphabet. [Kaph](/keys/K): (Jupiter, west, tin), [Peh](/keys/P) (Mars, Iron, and north), [Resh](/keys/R) (Sun, South, and Gold) and [Tav](/keys/Th) (Saturn, Center, Lead) and the interior stars. From the root word כפר: to atone, make atonement; procure forgiveness. see [300](300).

> *"The lid of the ark, or mercy-seat over which appeared the 'glory of God' was also know as the 'expiatory', in reference to the custom of the high-priest once a year to enter the most holy place and sprinkle the lid of the ark with the blood of an expiatory or sacrificial victim whereby he hade atonement for the 'sins of the people'. As this was the most solemn and significant act of the Hebrew ritual, it is natural that a reference to it should be involved in the name which the covering of the ark acquired. By a comparison of the text in which the word occurs, it will be seen that there would, in fact, have been little occasion to name the cover of the ark separately from the ark itself, but for this important ceremonial."* [Howard Severance: Bible Encyclopedia]

> *"The [Kapporeth](/keys/KPRTh) concealed what was in the ark and the [paroketh](/keys/PRKTh) hid the ark itself; hence both words indicate occultation, secrecy and mystery. The four 'metals' represented forces of occultation, because their combined activity results in ordinary human conscousness. Thus they are forces which hide the sacred mystery from the eyes of the profane. Yet the same forces are employed by initiates to open the higher vision which enables man to comprehend the true meaning of the same mystery, which is the mystery of his own true nature."* [The True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p.42]

---

### [Melakim](/keys/MLKIMf) - מלכים
> Kings; angels of Tiphareth in Assiah and of Netzach in Briah. [Mem = 600] see [140](140).

---

### [massoreth](/keys/MSRTh) - מסרת
> a band or bond (covenant). [Ezekiel 20:37](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/20-37.htm). see [612](612).

---

### [mistawr](/keys/MSThR) - מסתר
> a hiding-place, place of ambush (lying in wait); secret. [Isaiah 45:3](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/45-3.htm): *"I will give you the treasures of darkness, riches stored in secret places, so that you may know that I am the Lord, the God of Israel, who summons you by name."*

---

### [pahroketh](/keys/PRKTh) - פרכת
> curtain, veil. Literally "she that separates"; the veil or curtain between the Holy of Holies and the outer sanctuary in the temple. One of the technical terms in certain Rosicrucian mysteries. Describes the division of the 4 lower personality sephiroth (Netzach, Hod, Yesod and Malkuth) or 1st order, from the Egoic triad (Tiphareth, Geburah, Chesed) or 2nd order. (Made of the same letters כפרת, but in a different order -- Mars, Sun, Jupiter and Saturn).

---

### [roke](/keys/RKf) - רך
> tenderness, delicacy; gentle, bland. [Deuteronomy 28:56](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/28:56.htm): *"The tender and delicate woman among you, which would not adventure to set the sole of her feet upon the grond for delicateness and tenderness..."*

> [Genesis 18:7](http://biblehub.com/genesis/18-7.htm) *"And Abraham ran into the herd, and fetched a calf tender and delicate..."* Name of R.C. see [220](220).

---

### [sarar](/keys/ShRR) - שרר
> to have dominion, to rule; to be a prince.

---

### [sharar](/keys/ShRR) - שרר
> to twist, to twist together, to be firm, hard, tough, especially in a bad sense, and hence to afflict.

---

### [shorer](/keys/ShRR) - שרר
> the umbilical cord.

---

### [shath](/keys/ShTh) - שת
> Foundation, basis, a pillar, noise, tumult. Pernety gives this as one name for the Quicksilver of the Sages at the white stage.

---

### [Seth](/keys/ShTh) - שת
> The 3rd son of Adam, signifying "replace" or "compensation". [Genesis 4:25](http://biblehub.com/genesis/4-25.htm), [Daniel 3:1](http://biblehub.com/daniel/3-1.htm), [Ezra 6:15](http://biblehub.com/ezra/6-15.htm). Chaldee for "6". The name of Seth symbolizes an end, being composed of the last 2 letters of the alphabet in regular order [Zohar I page 174].

> The name symbolized the reincarnation of the spirit which had been lost, being the same letters as the word שת in the sentence: *"God hath replaced, Seth, for me another seed instead of Abel."* [Genesis 4:25](http://biblehub.com/genesis/4-25.htm).

> "The 'blood' of Abel leads to the birth of Seth ['seed'] and from this seed the stone itself is brought forth." [D.D. Bryant, The Philosopher's Stone, VI, 7] see [44](44), [45](45), [53](53), [37](37).

> Fabre D'Olivet observes:

> > *"שת. This root composed of the signs of relative and reciprocal movement, indicates the place toward which things irresistibility incline, and the things themselves which incline toward this place: thence, שת the depths, the foundations, literally as well as figuratively; the place where the sea is gathered; the seas itself; every kind of depth, every kind of beverage. The Arabic [word] has retained only a portion of the radical sense, in that which concerns the movement of water, the separation of this fluid into drops, its distillation, dispersion. the other portion of the primitive sense is found in the analogue [Arabic word] which designates in general the bottom or the foundation of things, the seat and particularity the buttocks."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.465]

> > *"שת Sheth... The signification of this name is of the utmost importance for those seeking to penetrate the essence of things. This name, as mysterious as those of Kain and Habel could never be translated exactly. All that I can do is to furnish the means necessary for unveiling the hieroglyphic depth. First let us examine the root. The two signs which compose it are Shin, sign of relative duration and of movement, and that of reciprocity, of mutual tendency, of the liaison of things, Tav. United by the universal, convertible sign, they form the verbal root שות, which is related to every action of placing, disposing, setting, founding. Considered as noun, the root שת, signifies foundation, in all of the acceptations of this word, and depicts the good, as well as the bad, the highest, as well as the lowest of things. It can signify also, every kind of beverage, and provides the verb שתוה to drink; because it is water, which, by its determined movement, indicates always the deepest place, that upon which is placed the foundation.*

> > *"But not only does the word שת express at once, the foundation of things, and the element which inclines to it, but it also serves in Hebrew, to designate the number two, in its feminine acceptation, and in Chaldaic, the number six... That the name of Sheth, or Seth, presents itself, as those of Kain and of Habel, under two acceptations wholly opposed. We have seen in treating of the latter two, that if Kain was the emblem of force and power, he was also that of rage and usurpation; we have seen that if one considered Habel as the emblem of thought and the universal soul, he was also regarded as that of nothingness and of absolute void: now, Sheth is the object of a contrast no less striking. The Hebrews, it is true, have represented him as the type of a chosen family; the historian Josephus has attributed to him the erection of those famous columns, upon which was carved the history of mankind and the principles of universal morals; certain oriental peoples and particularly those who make profession of Sabaeanism, have revered him as prophet; indeed many of the Gnostics called themselves Sethians: but is known, on the other hand, that the Egyptian confusing him with Typhon, called his the violent, the destructor, and gave him the odious surnames of Bubon and of Smou: it is also known that the Arabs considering him as the genius of evil, called him Shathan, by adding to his primitive name שת the augmentative final ון. This terrible name, given to the infernal adversary, Satan, in passing into the Hebraic tongue with the poems of Job, has brought there all the unfavorable ideas which the Arabs and the Egyptians attached to the name Seth, Sath or Soth, without harming, nevertheless, the posterity of this same Sheth, whom the Hebrews have continued to regard as the one from whom men, in general, and their patriarch, in particular, drew their origin."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp.146-147]

> The Zohar [I:55B-56A] says:

> > *"and called his name Seth. It is to Seth that all the generations which have survived in the world and all the truly righteous of the world trace their descent. Rabbi Jose said: 'The two last letters of the alphabet were left in their order after the others had been reversed through Adam's transgression, and therefore when he repented he grasped at these two and called the son who was born in his likeness Seth, a name formed of the last two letters of the alphabet in proper order...*

> > *"when God created the world, he made this covenant and established the world upon it, as it is written בראשית [[913](913)], which we interpret as [Bara Shith](/keys/BRA.ShITh), 'he created the foundation', to wit, the covenant on which the world rest, and which is also called shith, because it is through from which blessing flow forth to the world. Adam broke this covenant and removed it from its place. This covenant is symbolized by the small letter Yod [in שית], the root and foundation of the world. When Adam begat a son, he confessed his guilt and called the child Seth; he did not venture to insert a Yod and call him 'Shith', because he had broken the covenant so symbolized. In recompense, God propagated mankind from Seth, and made him the fore-father of all the righteous who have lived since. Note also this when Israel stood before mount..."* [text ends]

---

### [thalisar](/keys/ThLISR) - תליסר
> thirteen, [13](13). An Aramaic word used in the Zohar wherever the number 13 is mentioned. Its first 3 letters spell תלי, [Theli](/keys/ThLI), the Dragon; the last 2 סר, [Sar](/keys/SR), mean: rebellious, heavy, sad, sullen. Compare with [Key 13](13) and its various meanings, and bear in mind that תליסר, as 700 is the equivalent of Final Nun. see [7](7), [70](70), [175](175), [440](440), [260](260).

> [Sep. Dz. 2:3,5]: Also equals יה ([15](15)) + אב ([3](3)) + מסלות ([536](536)) + כחמה ([73](73)) + חכמה ([73](73)).

---

### [theili sar](/keys/ThLI.SR) - תלי סר
> Rebellious, sullen dragon.

---

### [Gophritha](/keys/GVPRIThA) - גופריתא
> Sulphur. The alchemical principle attributed to Chokmah as spelled in Aesch Mezareph. see [693](693).

---

### [Chokmah + kachmah + masloth + Ab + Jah](/keys/ChKMH+KChMH+MSLVTh+AB+IH) - חכמה כחמה מסלות אב יה
> The names of the sephirah of wisdom (the zodiac); its power of formation, the "highways of the stars", the father and the divine name Jah, all attributed to Chokmah. see [73](73), [536](536), [3](3), [15](15).

---

### [arelath](/keys/ORLTh) - ערלת
> foreskins. [Deuteronomy 10:16](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"Circumcise therefore the foreskins of your hearts."*

---

### [araketti](/keys/ORKThI) - ערכתי
> I have ordained. [Psalm 132:17](http://biblehub.com//.htm): *"There I will make the horn of David to grow and I have ordained a lamp for mine anointed."* see 648, 1348.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Chi-Rho](/greek?word=chr) (Gr) - ΧΡ
> [Greek monogram for Christ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chi_Rho). There is a direct connection between this monogram and the initials C.R., which designate the founder of Rosicrucianism. see [220](220).

> In Egyptian these two letters spell Khoor, Horus, which is also the monogram for Horus. *"Note that in this particular connection [X + R] the very same numbers [600 + 100] are the result of adding the values of the three letter Resh, and the five letters Kaph, which are the Hebrew equivalent of the letters R and C. Thus the three Hebrew R's add up to the number of a letter having a close affinity in sound with Hebrew Kaph, the Greek letter Chi. The five C's add up the number of a letter which is the same in sound and meaning as the Hebrew letter Resh, though its number is different. Here we may point out that the fundamental Christian attitude is an exact reversal of exoteric Judaism. Furthermore, the fundamental practical counsel of the esoteric Christian doctrine is all summed up in the one word reversal."* [True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p.43]

---

### [akroates](/greek?word=akroaThs) (Gr) - ακροατης
> a hearer. One who hears but does not regard. Written ἀκροαταὶ in [Romans 2:12-13](http://biblehub.com/romans/2-12.htm): *"Therefore, as many as sinned without law, will perish also without law; and as many as sinned under law, will be judged by law; ([13](http://biblehub.com/romans/2-13.htm)) For not the **hearers** of law are just before God, but the doers of law will be justified."*

> Also in [James 1:22-23](http://biblehub.com/james/1-22.htm) *"But become doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. ([23](http://biblehub.com/james/1-23.htm)) For if anyone be a hearer of the word, and not a doer, he resembles a man viewing his natural face in a mirror... but he who looks intently into that which is the perfect law of freedom, and continues it, not becoming a forgetful hearer, but a doer of its work, this man will be blessed in his deed."*

---

### See Also:

- [7](7)