## 702 - Seven Hundred Two
> (2x27x13)

---

### [ben](/keys/BNf) - בן
> Son (see [52](52)).

---

### [makhaymadim](/keys/MChMDIMf) - מחמדים
> desires, delights, precious things. Delightfulness in [Canticles 5:16](http://biblehub.com/songs/5-16.htm): *"His mouth is most sweet: yea, he is altogether lovely. This is my beloved, and this is my friend, O daughters of Jerusalem."* [Mem = 600] see [142](142).

---

### [pechadim](/keys/PChDIMf) - פחדים
> loins, thighs, testicles. Alludes to the seat of virile strength or Geburah as the sphere of Mars, which rules the reproductive functions. Also dread, terrifying in [Job 15:21](http://biblehub.com/job/15-21.htm): *"A dreadful sound is in his ears: in prosperity the destroyer shall come upon him."* [Mem = 600] see [142](142).

---

### [tzuroth](/keys/TzVRVTh) - צורות
> Forms. Refers to archetypal or prototypical forms, centered in the Self in Kether. see [301](301), [464](464).

---

### [Sabbath](/keys/ShBTh) - שבת
> Day of rest. Cessation from work; dwelling place; seat, sitting; indemnity for loss of in [Exodus 21:19](http://biblehub.com/exodus/21-19.htm); Name of a tractate of the Talmud. שבת the archetypal creation is divided into periods or cycles or rest and work. This is the divine pattern or plan. see [1460](1460), [713](713), [1837](1837). Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.703] says it divides between Yesod and Malkuth, i.e. the Path of Saturn.

> Ceased in [Joshua 5:12](http://biblehub.com/joshua/5-12.htm) *"And the manna ceased on the morrow after they had eaten of the grain of the land; neither had the children of Israel manna any more; but they did eat of the produce of the land of Canaan that year."*

> To rest in [Exodus 31:17](http://biblehub.com/exodus/31-17.htm) *"It [the Sabbath] is a sign between me and the children of Israel forever; for in six days the Lord made heaven and earth and the seas and all that are therein, and on the seventh day he ceased from work and rested."*

> [Exodus 21:19](http://biblehub.com/exodus/21-19.htm) *"If he rises again and walks in the street with his staff, then the one who struck him shall be acquitted, except that he shall pay for the loss of his time and the physician's fee."*

---

### [Bareket](/keys/BRQTh) - ברקת
Emerald; Marble; "Flashing Stone". Refers to the third stone of the breastplate of the high priest. [Exodus 28:17](http://biblehub.com/exodus/28-17.htm): *"And thou shalt set in it settings of stones, even four rows of stones: the first row shall be a sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle: this shall be the first row."*

> *"The third stone of the Breastplate is simply expressed by the word BAREKETH which has been variously rendered as Emerald, Ruby, Carbuncle, Amethyst, Rock Crystal, Green Olivine, Green Feldspar. Its true meaning is 'flashing,' which the Targumic translators express as 'brilliant.' The Hebrew BARUK corresponds to an Arabic word meaning 'to gleam, to flash;' the Assyrian word BARAKU and the Aramic BURUK have the same meaning, with which may be identified the Punic BARCAR, surname of the Carthaginian general Hamilcar; the Syriac BORKO and the Chaldean BARKAN can only be rendered 'brilliant.' There is a Sanskrit word MARKATA, meaning 'flashing, sparkling,' which corresponds to our word 'marble,' literally, 'the sparkling stone,' Latin MARMOR, cognate with the Greek MARMAROS from MARMAIRO to flash, shine, sparkle. Hence the Flashing Stone may be identified as marble, and this traditionally answers the required conditions. In astro-philosophy marble is connected with the sign of the columns, Gemini-Simeon in association with Levi--and is known as the day house of the planet Mercury. The Midrash Bemidbah gives the color of the sign as white, and Francis Barret expresses it as glittering'*

> *"... The shining marble is the emblem of spiritual resurrection which is symbolized by the sign of the twins (Gemini). Mercury as the Egyptian Tehuti or Thoth, or the Greek Hermes, is ever connected with the spirits of the dead in the hall of judgement and, in harmony with the brilliant flashing white stone, the everlasting uplifting and spiritual progress.*

> *"... The association of marble with Hermes, the guide of the human race, is traditional, and evidence favors it as the third stone on the breastplate engraved with the name of the Tribe of Levi."* [[The Magic of Science of Jewels and Stones, pp. 25, 26, 28](https://archive.org/stream/TheMagicAndScienceOfJewelsAndStones#page/n47)]

> He continues: *"Marble ... is carbonate of lime, pure when the color is white and of various shade of color when combined with oxide of iron and other substances. The marble favored by the ancients was the parain which is finely granular, waxy when polished, and lasting... Pure white marble was an emblem of purity and as such has always been regarded as fitting for tombstones and other sepulchral monuments. As an emblem of immortality it is expressed by the triform symbol of the planet Mercury (the cross, the circle and the crescent), with which is associated the Christ resurrection in Christian mysticism. Amongst Rosicrucian students the cross is symbolical of the pain of matter, for on it matter is fixed; the circle, the ascent of the soul which is above matter and never ending; the semi-circle which surmounts the whole, the spirit which is over all everlastingly."* [[The Magic of Science of Jewels and Stones, pp.262-263](https://archive.org/stream/TheMagicAndScienceOfJewelsAndStones#page/n291/search/MARBLE)]

---

### [barakh](/keys/BRKf) - ברך
> to kneel, bless. An epithet of ???. In [2 Chronicles 6:13](http://biblehub.com/2_chronicles/6-13.htm): *"For Solomon have made a bronze platform, five cubits long, five cubits wide, and two cubits high and had set it in the midst of the court; and he [Solomon] went up and stood upon it, and knelt down [VIBRK] upon his knees in the presence of all the people of Israel and spread forth his hands in prayer toward heaven."* Also: berekh. knee, lap.

---

### [va-yathpheru](/keys/VIThPRV) - 
> and they sewed. [Genesis 3:7](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-7.htm): *"Then the eyes of both of them [Adam and Eve] were opened, and they realized they were naked, so they sewed fig leaves together and made coverings for themselves."*

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: "VIThPRV and-they-yielded-forth... In this instance, the Hellenist have obviously and with deliberate purpose, exaggerated the vulgar sense, so as to thicken more and more the veil which they had resolved to throw over the Sepher, for it is evident that the verb PRVTh, used here according to the reflexive form, signifies, to produce, to bring forth, to fecundate, and not to sew. I do not see how they dared to take this ridiculous expression and still less why Saint Jermome agreed with them. The Samaritan version and the Chaldaic targum offered him quite an easy way. Here are their verbal translation [Chaldaic]. "And-they-condensed a-condensation (a thick veil), elevation of sorrow-mutual-and-of-mourning." [And the Hebraic version] "VChThIThV LHVN ThRPI ThANIN And-they-excited-profoundly in-them a-trouble (a confusion obscure) of sorrow-mutual-and-ofmourning." One can see nothing in them which can excuse the extravagant Greek and Latin phrase: and they sewed fig-leaves!

> F.J. Mayers adds: "'The sewed': Hebrew, 'va-ithepherou'. This is the reflexive form of the verb 'pharaoth', 'to produce', 'to bring forth', 'to give birth to'. The root of the word is 'phr', which denotes 'fertility' or 'productiveness', as for instance, in 'phari', 'fruits'. It is impossible to justify the word 'sewed' as the translation, even in a figurative sense." [The Unknown God, p.170]

---

### [ravak](/keys/RBK) - 
> to be mixed, mingled; to dip, soak (into oil). Written MRBKTh in [1 Chronicles 23:29] "They [the Levites] were in charge of the bread set out on the table, the flour for the grain offering, the unleavened wafers, the baking and the mixing, and all measurements of quantity and size." Note that the mixing is also depicted in observations of Key 14, Temperance.

---

### [bielam](/keys/BLOM) - 
> Balaam; "a stranger". In the Old Testament he stands for the unavailing curse of the heathen enchanter; in the New Testament he is the type of the tempter to idolatry, especially that part of it in which lust plays a large part. The incongruous qualities of a heathen soothsayer and a man touched by the spirit of the Lord. [Standard Bible Dictionary]. In [Joshua 24:9] "When Balak son of Zippor, the King of Moab, prepared to fight against Israel, he sent for Balaam son of Beor to put a curse on you."

---

### [Balam](/keys/BOLM) - 
> Balam. Goetic demon by night of the 3rd decanate of Leo. This decanate is ruled by Mars and has the qualities: fearless, outspoken, animated. The influence of the demon suggest subconscious imbalance, resulting in negative aspect of these qualities. The name of the demon suggest concentration (Beth) on outward appearances (Ayin), resulting in unbalanced action (Lamed) and reversal of true values (Mem). The 3rd decanate of Leo also corresponds to the 7 of Wands in the Tarot minor arcana. This is the operation of Netzach, sphere of Venus in Atziluth, the archetypal world, or the drive, the motive behind personal desire. When negatively aspected, as here, this can indicate ignorance, pretense, vain glory, quarrels and wrangling, threats and very determined opposition, especially form subordinates and open enemies. The remedy is control and direction of the desire nature and to believe we have already received what we desire, through mediational practice.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [akeldamach](/greek?word=akeldamach) (Gr) - Ἁκελδαμάχ
> mania, frenzy. [Acts 1:19](http://biblehub.com/acts/1-19.htm). See [102](102) (Gr).

---

### See Also:

- [72](72)
- [9](9)
