## 703 - Seven Hundred Three
> (19x37). [Σ37](Σ37) = 703, the complete expression of the power of יחידה, [Yekhidah](/keys/IChIDh).

---

### [Raziy yesodoth](/keys/RZI.ISVDVTh) - רזי יסודות
> secret foundations. Refers to the [14th path](14) of [Daleth](/keys/D) as the instructor in the secret foundations of holiness and perfection. see [486](486), [601](601), [80](80), [378](378).

---

### [eben](/keys/ABNf) - אבן
> stone. Upon which the Empress sits. [Nun = 700]. see [53](53).

---

### [gan](/keys/GNf) - גן
> garden (see [53](53)). Both אבן and גן are emphasized by the symbols of [Key 3](3), אבן by the great stone on which the Empress sits, and to by the garden which is the scene of the picture. Both are symbols of the Great Work, and of the power which is controlled and transmuted in alchemy. This is the power of Yesod, the reproductive energy. It is shaped, moreover, by acts of creative imagination. [Nun = 700]. see [124](124), [45](45), [53](53).

---

### [abreach](/keys/ABRKf) - אברך
> tender father, translated "bow the knee". [Genesis 41:43](http://biblehub.com/genesis/41-43.htm). The legendary "father R.C.", founder of the Rosicrucian order. [Kaph = 500] see [223](223).

---

### [aotzoroth](/keys/AVTzRVTh) - אוצרות
> treasure; storehouse, granary; treasury. The treasure of seed-thoughts; the granary from the empress; garden.

---

### [mesegereth](/keys/MSGRTh) - מסגרת
> strong-hold; border, rim; the which encloses. frame. This the cubic Stone.

---

### [veath ha-eretz](/keys/VATh.HARTz) - ואת הארץ
> and the earth. [Genesis 1:1](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-1.htm): *"In the beginning the Elohim cut apart the heavens and the earth."* see [401](401), [291](291). The physical place is to be made into the garden.

---

### [Aleph-Lamed-Cheth-Mem-Heh](/keys/ALP.LMD.ChITh.MIM.HH) - אלף למד חית מים הה
> אלחמה or [alchemy](/keys/ALChMH), written in full. see [84](84).

---

### [Satariel](/keys/SAThARIAL) - סאתאריאל
> "Concealment of God". Qlippoth of Binah. The "adverse" Sephirah "who hides the face of mercy". Called Sheiriel in supplement to the Zohar [Gustav Davidson]. This implies an imbalance in creative imagination, which conceals the light of God, i.e. the appearances of physical plane illusion.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Chanaan](/greek?word=chanaan) (Gr) - Χανάαν
> Canaan; the ancient name of Judea or Palestine, the Hebrew כנען [Canaan](/keys/KNON) ([190](190)). *"And a famine came upon all the land of Egypt and Canaan, and great distress; and our fathers found no provisions."* [Acts 7:11](http://biblehub.com/acts/7-11.htm). Also [Acts 13:19](http://biblehub.com/acts/13-19.htm): *"And having cast out seven nations in the land of Canaan, he distributed their land to them my lot."*

---

### [Ho agios Israel](/greek?word=o+agios+israhl) (Gr) - Ο Αγιος Ισραηλ
> the holy one of Israel. This term does not appear in the New Testament, but occurs several times in the Old Testament, as in:

> - [Psalm 89:18](http://biblehub.com/psalms/89-18.htm): *"For the Lord is our defense; and the holy one of Israel is our king"*.
> - [Isaiah 41:14](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/41-14.htm): *"Fear not, thy worm Jacob, and ye men of Israel; I will help thee, says the Lord, and thy redeemer, the holy one of Israel."*
> - [Isaiah 48:17](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/48-17.htm): *"Thus says the Lord, thy redeemer, the holy one of Israel; I am the Lord thy God which teaches thee to profit, which leads thee by the way which thou should go."*
> - [Isaiah 54:5](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/54-5.htm): *"For thy maker is thine husband; the Lord of Hosts is his name; and thy redeemer the Holy One of Israel; the God of the whole earth shall he be called."*

---

### [Ho Theos Israel](/greek?word=o+theos+israhl) (Gr) - Ο Θεος Ισραηλ
> the God of Israel. Occurs only once in the New Testament and is spelled Θεὸν Ἰσραήλ, in [Matthew 15:31](http://biblehub.com/matthew/15-31.htm): *"So that the crowds beheld, with wonder, the deaf hearing, the crippled restored, the lame walking and the blind seeing; and they glorified the God of Israel."*

---

### See Also:

- [73](73)
- [10](10)
- 703 = Σ[37](37)

