## 709 - Seven Hundred Nine
> (prime)

xxx be-aorekaw, cont. The beginning is in light. In [Psalm 36:9] "In thy light we see light" (see 692). "Thy Light" is represented by the seven doubles corresponding to the lights of the candlestick in the tabernacle.

## Greek

### [hoi eutheis](/greek?word=oi+eutheis) - οι ευθεις
> the upright. Septuagint translation of IShRIM [560] in [Psalm 49:14] "Like sheep they [the foolish] are laid in the grave; death shall feed on them; and the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning; and their beauty shall consume in the grave from their dwelling." see [560](560).

### [arche](/greek?word=archh) - ἀρχῇ
> beginning. In [The Magical Message according to Ioannes, p.71] Pryse translates this as 'in the first-principle" and comments: "Gr. arche, first cause, inherent principle of evolution as opposed to the primary elements (stocheia), which are the first differentiations of the root-substance. It is the divine spirit of life pulsating through the chaos, or space. Considered as the kosmic matrix, or womb of the world, it was symbolized by the crescent moon (typical female generative power), and by the ark, or ship of life, floating on the 'great deep' or watery abyss of space, and preserving the germs of all living things during the intervals between the periods of kosmic objectivity. colloquially, enarche means 'at first', or 'in the beginning'; but there the word has the same philosophical meaning it has in [Hebrews 6:1] "Leaving the discussion (Logos) of the first principle (arche) of the Christos, let us refer to perfection [initiation].'"