## 71 - Seventy-One
> (prime)

---

### [yonah](/keys/INH) - ינה
> a dove, a pigeon. Used figuratively as a metaphor for sexual warmth, a marked characteristic of doves. One of the birds sacred to Venus (and is closely connected with Saturn). Refers to the reproductive functions of Venus, and creative imagination. see [70](70), [400](400), [406](406), [601](601), [378](378), [486](486), [700](700), [801](801) Greek.

> Also a symbol of Jonah, who was swallowed by the great fish (Nun). A symbol of Israel in scripture, and the form that the Holy Spirit took at Jesus baptism my John. Also spelled ינה, so that contain 3 letters used in the spelling of יהוה, combined with Nun, the Fish. [PFC on D.D. Bryant]

> [Matthew 12:39](http://biblehub.com/matthew/12-39.htm): *"But he answered and said unto them, an evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign; and there shall be no sign given to it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas: ([40](http://biblehub.com//.htm)) For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the whale's belly, so shall the son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth."* See also [Matthew 16:14](http://biblehub.com/matthew/16-14.htm), [Luke 11:29](http://biblehub.com/luke/11-29.htm). ינה = Virgo (Yod) +Taurus (Vav) > Scorpio (Nun) > Aries (Heh) . see [59](59).

> Also cited by Fabre D'Olivet in [Genesis 8:8](http://biblehub.com/genesis/8-8.htm): *"Then he sent forth a dove from the ark, to see if the waters had abated from, the face of the ground."* He renders the verse: *"And he sent forth Ionah (plastic forces of nature, brooding dove) from him, to see if the waters were lightened from off the face of the ?Adamicement.?"* He comments:

> > *"היונה Ionah.... Here again is an emblem famous in ancient cosmogonies; emblem, that the Greek and Latin interpreters have again presented under the least of its characteristics; under that of a dove. It is indeed true that the Hebrew word יונה, signifies a dove, but it is in the same manner that the word ערב [[272](272)], signifies a raven; that is to say, that the names of these two birds have been given them, in a restricted sense, in consequence of the physical or moral analogues which have been imagined between the primitive signification attached to the words ערב and יונה, and the apparent qualities of the raven and the dove. The darkness of Ereb, its sadness, the avidity with which it is believed that it devours the beings which fall into its pale, could they be better characterized than by a dark and voracious bird such as the raven? The whiteness of the dove on the contrary, its gentleness, its inclination to love, did not these qualities suggest it as an emblem of the generative faculty, the plastic force of Nature? It is well know that the dove was the symbol of Semiramis, of Derceto, of Mylitta, of Aphrodite, and of all the allegorical personages to whom the ancients attributed the generative faculty, represented by this bird. This emblem appears to have been known from most ancient times, by the Brahmans, by the Chaldeans, and even by the Sabaean priest of Arabia. It is known that the time when Mohammed entered victorious into Mecca, he cause an image of the dove, sculptured in the temple of that celebrated city, to be broken by the hands of Ali. In short, if one open any ancient book treating of religious mysteries, he will find therein traces of the veneration of the peoples for the dove. Assyria was particularly characterized by the bird and it can be inferred form a passage in [Isaiah 20:6](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/20-6.htm) that it was an ensign for the Assyrians...*

> > *It is evident that the name of Ionia, that famous country claimed equally be Europe and Asia, comes from the same source as the word יונה. The Chaladic and Hebrew יון, יוני, or יונאי, always designate Greece, or that which belongs to her: these are the Greek analogues; [Greek words]. For, if we examining Greece concerning the inner meaning of the name which she gives herself, we shall find that she attaches to the word [Greek word], all ideas of all ideas of softness, sweetness and amorous languor, which we attach to that of the dove; if we go further and explore in Greek itself the root of this word, we shall see that this root [Greek word], contains in that tongue, the ideas of cultivated, fertile land; of productive soil; of existing being in general; of the violet flower consecrated to Juno, etc.*

> > *Now what do we find in the Hebrew root יון? We find, in general the idea of a thing indeterminate, soft, sweet, easy to receive all forms, and in particular, a clayey, ductile. If, following our method, we proceed to the hieroglyphic sense, and if we examine the signs of which this root is composed, we shall easily find in יון, the mysterious root אוי, where the sign of manifestation Yod, has replaced the sign of power Aleph: so that, if the root און designates indefinite being, the root יון will designate the same being passing from power into action.*

> > *...יונה expresses the generative faculty of nature. We shall see that in Hebrew, the compound word אביונה, signifies desire of amorous pleasures; and that one understands by the words יונה עלם, a song, tender, melodious and capable of inspiring love.*

> > *...Ionia, from which we have imbibed all that we have imbibed all that we have which is delightful i art and brilliant in knowledge, is attached on side to the mysteries dove of Moses, so that of Semiramis; and loses itself on the other, in that sacred emblem called Yoni by the Brahmans; Yng, by the Chinese Tao-teh, over which it is necessary that I draw an impenetrable veil."*

> [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 230-233]

---

### [hayaven](/keys/HIVN) - היון
> The mud, mire. see [99](99).

---

### [aimq](/keys/AIMK) - אימך
> thy terror. "The implications of הידה, riddle, and בכה, weeping." [Case] see [27](27)

---

### [aiul](/keys/ALIL) - אליל
> nothing, apparition; image; idol; false God; worthlessness, naught, i.e. appearance. see [121](121)

---

### [alam](/keys/ALM) - אלם
> To be dumb, silent; which is also a name of a system of chanting called literally ינה אלם רחקים. *"The dove who conceals that which is distant."* also: אלם, to bind sheaves (of wheat). see [Key 3](3)

---

### [anak](/keys/ANK) - אנך
> To be pointed, to be sharp; an engraving tool; a plumbline, plummet. [Amos 7:8](http://biblehub.com/amos/7-8.htm): *"And the Lord said unto me, Amos, what seest thou? And I said, a plumb line. Then said the Lord, Behold, I will set a plumb line in the midst of my people Israel: I will not again pass by them anymore."* also: אנך, lead (metal of Saturn).

---

### [chazon](/keys/ChZVN) - חזון
> vision, prophecy, divine revelation. True vision is a higher fruit of the reproductive power (Nun) and imagination (Daleth). see [137](137), [787](787)

---

### [hayown](/keys/HIVN) - היון
> the mud, mire. see [99](99)

---

### [mala](/keys/MLA) - מלא
> complete, to overflow, to be filled; plentitude, fullness. All these words are connected with that principle which is at once Nahash, the tempter, and Messiah, the anointed, according to the mode of its manifestation. It is that which at once the serpent and the dove, that which is copper, or Venus. [PFC on D.D. Bryant]. see [358](358).

---

## Greek/Latin

---

### [coction](/latin?word=coction) (Lt)
> cooking or baking (alchemical term).

---

### [Annuit](/latin?word=Annuit) (Lt)
> He hath prospered. Part of the motto "He hath prospered our undertakings" on the great seal of the U.S. see [79](79), [150](150), [370](370) Latin.

---

### [passio](/latin?word=passio) (Lt)
[passion](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=passio): suffering; passion; (esp. of Christ); disease (Bee);

> *"The will of man divides itself similarly into seven powers... The fourth is that of receiving inclinations, without deciding upon acting upon any, as in the condition of passion--**passio**"* {[Karl von Eckartshausen, The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary, letter VI](cloud-upon-sanctuary)}

---

### See Also:

- [8](8)
