## 731 - Seven Hundred Thirty-One 
> 17x43. Total length of the visible paths when the Aleph line is 26 units long: 14 lines of 26 units (364) + 7 lines of 45 units (315) + 1 line of 52 units (52) = 731.

### [Beth ha-Shittah](/keys/BITh-HShTH) - בית השטה
> House of the Acacia [Judges 7:22](http://biblehub.com/judges/7-22.htm). Acacia is the special symbolic plant of Freemasonry as well as the sacred wood of the Israelites. Refers to the length of the visible paths of the Tree. Shittah, the sacred wood was made into the symbolic furniture of the tabernacle and temple representing man; and is a symbol of immortality.

> [Judges 7:22](http://biblehub.com/judges/7-22.htm): *"And the three hundred blow the trumpets, and the Lord set every man's sword against his fellow, all thoughout the host: and the host fled to beth-shittah in Zererath, and to the border of Abelmeholah, unto Tabbath."*

> Inman writes: *"It is generally said that this word means 'house of the Acacia', שטה, [Shitah](/keys/ShTH), and that it represents a locality where Acacia trees were common. It, however, the word represent a shrine, house or temple, it is probably derived from שת, [shat](/keys/ShTh), plural shathim, which signifies 'columns' or 'pillars,' in which case the meaning is 'the temple of the pillars'.* [Ancient Faiths Embodied in Ancient Names, pp. 363-364]. Both explanations suggest the Freemason lodge.

[Shet](/keys/ShTh), שת, means "two". *[Biblehub: Setayim](http://biblehub.com/hebrew/shetayim_8147.htm)*

### [gibeah ha-elohim](/keys/GBOH.HALHIMf) - גבעה האלהים
> Hill of the Elohim. An ancient Hebrew name for Bethel, The House of God, where Jacob had his dream of the ladder. This ladder is another symbol associated by Qabalists with the Tree of Life. Mem (final) = 600. see [171](171).

### [chezawyon](/keys/ChZIVNf) - חזיון
> vision. Nun (final) = 700. [Isaiah 22:1](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/22-1.htm): *"The burden of the valley of vision. What ails thee now, that thou are wholly gone up to the house tops?"* see [81](81).

> The Zohar [?II: p.270?] says: *"The valley of vision is an appellation of the temple when the Shekhinah dwells in it, and when it was the source from which all drew their prophetic inspiration; for although the various prophets proclaimed their message in various regions, they all drew their inspiration from the temple. Hence the appellation 'valley of vision'. (The term hizayon (vision) has also been interpreted to signify "reflection of all the celestial hues".) The words 'What ails thee now, that thou are wholly gone up to the houses tops?' Allude to the Shekhinah, who at the destruction of the temple revisited all the spots were she had dwelt formerly and wept for her habitation and for Israel who had gone into exile and all those righteous ones and saints that perished there."*

> See [gia chizayawn](/keys/GIA.ChZIVN) "valley of vision", [95](95), [745](745). It is obvious, from the gematria, that true vision ([Key 4](4)) is what preserves seed ([Key 13](13)) and brings us to the hill of the Elohim where the house of God is ([Key 1](1)). Thus we gain immortality as our consciousness expands.

### [Camio](/keys/KAINf) - כאין
> Goetic demon by night of the 2nd decanate of Virgo associated with the 9 of Pentacles in the Tarot minor arcana. This is the operation of Yesod, sphere of the Moon, in Assiah the material world. When negatively aspected, as here, this can indicate discouragement and troubles through theft and knavery. The remedy is to define experiences, sensations and surrounding in harmony with the patters of reality of the physical plane. According to Davidson, Camio or Caim is a great president in Hell, and manifested in the forms of a thrush, a belted bird. As many as 30 legions of infernal sprits attend him. *[Davidson: Dictionary of Angels, p.79]*