## 736 - Seven Hundred Thirty-Six
> (23x32)

---

###/keys/RIShA ChVVRH Resha Chavvurah
> the White Head. A title of Kether and the number 1. (note spelling difference between (733). see 837, 620, 222.

---

###/keys/ARVN ChDTh Aron ha-edeth
> Ark of the Testimony. Alternate spelling is HODVTh, see 742, 1386, 3793 (Greek).

---

###/keys/OQLQLVTh ekalekalloth
> tortuous ways, perverseness. From OQLQL crooked, winding; zig-zag. Suggest the spiral motion of spirit in macrocosm (whirling in Kether) and microcosm (the serpent-power). Written OQLQLVThM in [Psalm 125:5] (4) "Do Good, O Lord, to these who are good, to those who are upright n heart. (5) But those who turn to crooked ways, the Lord will banish with the evil doers."

Thomas Troward comments: *"Firm trust in 'God' is the only true foundation of peace. 'Thou will keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on thee: because he trusts in thee' [Isaiah 26:3]. It is the radiant center of life (Zion) which cannot be removed and abides forever. The reflect of the power within is a corresponding working without which is a circle of protecting mountains around Jerusalem, which is the habitation of our life. Zion, the radiating center of life in ourselves and center of the infinite, and Jerusalem the city of our habitation and all our circumstances and surroundings. The way to get this is to be upright in our hearts (verse 4) and to true aside from crooked ways (verse 5). The opposite to a crooked way is to act form love in sincerity, i.e. love, either form the person or the work. If we are doing it for a person, the purely for the persons's sake-if for a work, the purely for the work's sake, without arrieve pensee (second thoughts]-peace shall be upon Israel, even such as of a pure heart."* [Troward on Psalms, Psalm 125]

---

###/keys/MLKVTh KL-OLMIM malkuth kawl-olamim
> an ever-lasting kingdom. [Psalm 145:13] "Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and thy dominion endures throughout all generations." see 636, 516. The kingdom of spirit embodied in flesh brings Kether into Malkuth. [Troward on Psalm]: "The keynote of this Psalm is the infinitude of the Lord" (= the spirit), supplying, supporting, and expanding the individual (a) cosmically and generically-'his tender mercies are over all his works'; and (b) in precise response to the recognition of the individual. This is scientific, and naturally results form the psychological relation of the individual mind to the universal mind. It is law, and it is by this natural law that the Lord particularly favors those who call upon him in truth (i.e. not as mere ceremony) and that love him (verse 18 + 20). The study of the Lord's working is commended, i.e. the operation of the law above referred to... It is a science and the root of all other science, and it becomes a kingdom (verse 13) the kingdom of perfected individuality." see 4401 (Greek).

---

###/keys/LOVLMf le-olahim
> forever, to eternity. [Mem = 600] [Psalm 110:4]

---

### [Ab lebehn](/keys/AB.LABNf) - אב לאבן
> Father of Fathers.

---
