## 745 - Seven Hundred Forty-Five
> 5x149.

---

### [gia chizayawn](/keys/GIA.ChZIVNf) - גיא חזיון
> The valley of vision. Nun (final) = 700. See [95](95).

---

### [hahman](/keys/HMNf) - המן
> to be turbulent. to rage. Multitude in [Ezekiel 5:7] "Therefore thus says the Lord God; because ye multiplied more than the nations that are round about you, and have not walked in my statutes, neither have kept my judgements, neither have done according to the judgements of the nations that are round about you." (I am against thee) refers to the restless activity associated with Mars and with Geburah. [Nun = 700]. see [95](95).

> Fabre D'Olivet says of the root הם, that it is *"universalized life: the power of the universe. Onomatopoeic and idiomatic root, which indicates every kind of tumultuous noise, commotion, fracas. The Arabic [word] characterizes, in general, that which is heavy, painful, agonizing. It is literally a burden, care, perplexity. as a verb [Arabic word] expresses the action of being disturbed, of interfering, of bustling about to do a thing. הום action of exciting a tumult, making a noise, disturbing with clamor, with an unexpected crash; every perturbation, consternation, trembling, etc."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp. 331-332]

---

### [Zebulon](/keys/ZBLVNf) - זבלון
> Tribe of Zebulon. "habitation." Cancer (see 95). Note: Godwin's says this tribe is associated with Capricorn. Nun (final) = 700.

---

### [tzelem di-dehab](/keys/TzLMf.DI-DHB) - צלם די־דהב
[Mem = 600]. golden image. [Daniel 3:1](https://biblehub.com/daniel/3-1.htm): *"Nebuchadnezzar the king made **an image of gold**, whose height was threescore cubits, and the breadth thereof six cubits: he set it up in the plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon."*. see [185](185).

---

### See Also:

- [16](16)
- [7](7)
- [Bible Wheel: 745](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=745)
