## 76 - Seventy-Six
> (4x19)

---

### [sodo](/keys/SVDV) - סודו
> secret. *"He revealeth His secret."* [Amos 3:7](http://biblehub.com/amos/3-7.htm). Also rendered in Jewish translation "His counsel." see [114](114).

---

### [chebeyown](/keys/ChBIVN) - חביון
> Hiding place, Hiding (Secret; put away). See plate in "The Universal One," page 11 where there are exactly 19 divisions of a spiral, each subdivided into 4 parts (4x19 = 76).

---

### [ahbad](/keys/OBD) - עבד
> to work, labor, to till, cultivate (soil); to make; to prepare, to serve; to worship. Used throughout the Bible in a great variety of shades to meaning.

---

### [mole](/keys/MVL) - מול
> to circumcise, to hem, make a fringe. Also spelt מל ([70](70)).

---

### [abeni-bohu](/keys/ABNI-BHV) - אבני־בהו
> "stones of emptiness." [Isaiah 34:11](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/34-11.htm): *"But the cormorant and the bittern shall possess it; the owl also and the raven shall dwell in it: and he shall stretch out upon it the line of confusion, and the stones of emptiness."*

> In Hebrew Massoretic translation, "Plummet of emptiness." Also, "Stone of confusion" [Zohar, page 49].

---

### [kahanah](/keys/KHNA) - כהנא
> Priest [Ezra 7:1](http://biblehub.com/ezra/7-1.htm), (spelt כהן): *"Artaxerxes, King of Kings, unto Ezra the priest, a scribe of the law of the God of heaven, perfect peace..."*

> כהנא is also the name of the altar mentioned in section 6 of St. Germain's "Most Holy Trinosophia." It is the definite form and in the Book of Ezra it always refers to Ezra himself. [Ezra](/keys/OZRA) is עזרא ([278](278)), or the [material world](/keys/OVLM.HMVTBO), עולם המוטבע.

> Thus כהנא is this connection, as it refers to an altar, obviously means salt. St. Germain (section 6) describes the altar as yellow with *"a pure flame ascending from it, having no other substance for its alimentation than the altar itself. Letters in black were engraved at the base of the altar."* In the accompanying illustration the altar is cylindrical, or like a short column. see [961](961), [693](693), [372](372)

---

### [lawmo](/keys/LMV) - למו
> A poetic form of להם, to consume, hence, to destroy. [Psalm 119:165](http://biblehub.com/psalms/119-165.htm). see [75](75), [539](539)

---

### [Elilah](/keys/ALILH) - אלילה
> Goddess. Godwin suggest Binah, the Great Mother.

---

## Greek/Latin

---

### [Athene](/greek?word=athhnh) (Gr) - Αθηνη
> Athene (Minerva), virginal daughter of Zeus. A name for the number 7 given it by Greek philosophers.

---

### [Apophis](/latin?word=Apophis) (Lt)
> Typhon, the destroyer. Symbolized by the uplifted arms of the Child (Horus) in [Key 20](20). A personification in Egypt mythology of the destructive principle. His mother is Isis and his father Osiris. The Child represents the rebirth which results from mastering Typhon. One of the Initials (A) of IAO, one of the most Potent "Words of Power" to bring forth dimensional awareness. see [21](21), [449](449) (Greek), [358](358), [162](162), [86](86)

---

### [unius](/latin?word=unius) (Lt)
> one, single. This awareness comes from a single source. Part of an inscription on the altar in the vault of Brother CR. see [475](475), [87](87), [106](106) (Latin)

---

### [mundum](/latin?word=mundum) (Lt)
> world. Refers to the "small world" or microcosm, which is man. see [179](179), [103](103) (Latin)

---

### [pectus](/latin?word=pectus) (Lt)
> breast. Note that this is the part of the human body governed by the sign Cancer. Within this area is the sun center, focus of the central ego in the microcosm. This word, with a different spelling, is part of the phrase, "a seed planted in the breast of Jesus", a motto mentioned in the Rosicrucian Fama Fraternitatis. see [95](95), [310](310) (Latin).

---

### [Corona Dei](/latin?word=corona+dei) (Lt)
> Crown of the Lord. Rosenroth in [K.D.L.C.K. p.86] says it is the name of God which Rabbi Moses says refers to Malkuth and that is this, says Rabbi Ishmael, which is blessed and the fount of blessings. For Rosenroth it also refers to Briah, as signifying all forms and manifestations which are born [i.e. imaged] from the crown of the Lord.

---

### English Gematria:

- [Europe](/english?word=europe)
- [Physic](/english?word=Physic) *([Fama p.3](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/3))*

---

### See Also:

- [13](13)
- [4](4)
