## 808 - Eight Hundred Eight
> (8x101)

### [Nehushtan](/keys/NChShThN) - נחשתן
> the bronze serpent. Name given by Hezekiah to the brazen serpent of Moses. [2 Kings 18:4](http://biblehub.com/2_kings/18-4.htm): *"He removed the high places, smashed the sacred stones and cut down the Asherah poles. He broke into pieces the bronze serpent Moses had made. For unto that time the Israelites had been burning incense to it. (It was called Nehushtan)."*

### [tachath](/keys/ThChTh) - תחת
> Under.

### [Abraham](/keys/ABRHMf) - אברהם
> Father of many Nations, referring to Abraham. "Nations" esoterically are the million of body cells not directly concerned with the control the functions of the body, as are the more highly specialized cells known as the twelve tribes. see [248](248), [59](59). [Mem = 600]

### [Chaph](/keys/ChPf) - חף
> pure, innocent. In [Job 33:9](http://biblehub.com/job/33-9.htm): *"I am pure and without sin; I am clean and free from guilt. ([10](http://biblehub.com/job/33-10.htm)) Yet God has found fault with me; he considers me his enemy."* [Peh = 800] see [88](88).

### [Choshekh, kheshek](/keys/ChShKf) - חשך
> darkness, adversity ([328](328)). Also the 9th of the ten plagues against Egypt, mentioned in [Exodus 10:22](http://biblehub.com/exodus/10-22.htm): *"So Moses stretched out his hand toward the sky, and total darkness covered all Egypt for three days."* [Kaph = 500] see [444](444), [924](924), [380](380), [541](541).

Could this also be a reference to the three days of blindness experienced by St. Paul during his conversion?

### [racham](/keys/RChMf) - רחם
> carrion bird; vulture. [Leviticus 11:19](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/11-19.htm): *"These are the birds you are to detest and not eat because they are detestable. The stork, any kind of heron, the hoopoe and the vulture."* [Mem = 600] see [248](248).

### [mozenin](/keys/MAZNINf) - מאזנין
> scales, balances [Chaldean]. Refers to the zodiacal sign Libra, corresponding to [Justice](/keys/L) ([Key 11](11)) in Tarot. [Isaiah 40:15](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/40-15.htm): *"Behold, the Nations are as the drop of a bucket, and are counted as the small dust of the balance: behold, he takes up the isles as every little thing."*

> Intuition enables one to establish the balance of [Key 11](11). Libra is under the same planetary rulership (Venus) as Taurus, which corresponds to the [16th path](16). Note the meaning of "Nations" and that "bucket" suggest the sign Aquarius ([44](44)) and alchemical dissolution. Meditation and equilibrium are thus impled. [Nun = 700] see [158](158).

### [be-Tzion](/keys/BTzIVNf) - בציון
> in Zion. [Isaiah 28:16](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/28-16.htm): *"Therefore thus says the Lord God, behold, I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone, a tried stone, a precious corner stone, a sure foundation: he that believes shall not make haste."*

> Refers to the center of human personality, the point within, where man makes contact with the one reality. It is the place in the midst, which we call the adytum, or holy of holies. Zion is a Qabalistic name for the feminine aspect of Yesod. [Nun = 700] see [158](158), [156](156), [513](513).

### See Also:

- [88](88)
- [16](16)
- [7](7)
