## 81 - Eighty-One
> (9x9) The number of the Moon whose magic square contains the numbers from 1 to 81.

---

### [Anoki](/keys/ANKI) - אנכי
> "I" (personal pronoun). [Exodus 23:20](http://biblehub.com/exodus/23-20.htm). *"Behold I send an angel before thee, to keep thee in the way (Path), and bring thee into the place which I have prepared."*

> The Zohar [III: 25A, pp. 84-85] Comments: *"When the holy one gave Israel the Torah on Mount Sinai, his first word was anokhi contains many mysteries; here, however, we are concerned with the fact that it is the first of all commandments, the root of all precepts of the law: I am the Lord."* This is the general axiom. The particular is thy God. The same is true of the Lord thy God is a consuming fire. [Deuteronomy 4:24](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/4-24.htm). see [9](9), [18](18), [27](27), [36](36), [45](45), [54](54), [63](63), [72](72), [90](90).

---

### [chezawyon](/keys/ChZIVN) - חזיון
> vision. also: revelation, optics; phenomenon; play, drama. [Isaiah 22:1](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/22-1.htm): *"The burden of the valley of vision. what aileth thee now, that thou art wholly gone up to the house tops?"*

> [Zohar 2:270] *"The term hizayon (vision) has also been interpreted to signify reflection of all celestial hues."* Has to do with prophetic inspiration. see [731](731), [736](736), [965](965).

---

### [ubekal-chaiah](/keys/VBKL-ChIH) - ובכל־חיה
And all living. [Genesis 1:28](https://biblehub.com/genesis/1-28.htm): *"And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, **and over every living thing** that moveth upon the earth."*

---

### [kauvanah](/keys/KVNH) - כונה
> fervor, intention, intent, attention, devotion; intense meditation. A Rabbinical term describing a mental practice akin to Yoga. The means whereby one becomes receptive to the influx of the Holy Influence [Mezla](/keys/MZLA) [מזלא], descending from Kether. Through meditation one is also shown the true nature of the power experienced as Will, as being received from Geburah.

---

### [tebah, tebaw](/keys/TBO) - טבע
> to sink; to impress, impression on a coin, character. as a noun: nature. The meanings of this word imply that nature is like the impression made on wax by a signet ring. Closely related is the occult doctrine that nature is impressed with characters written by the Hand of God. This is a figurative way of stating what is strictly true. One needs only pay close attention to events and things in order to read their inner meaning. see [86](86). Root of [Motba](/keys/MVTBO), מוטבע, the [28th Path](28) of the Natural Intelligence.

---

### [alim](/keys/ALIM) - אלים
> gods, strong; powerful; influential; to do.

---

### [alim](/keys/ALIM) - אלים
> rams.

---

### [ap or ahph](/keys/AP) - אף
> anger, wrath, passion. Also nose, nostrils. As a conjunction: also, even, too. This strength, when unbalanced is also the passion or wrath of God. see [801](801)

---

### [ve-tanek, betenek](/keys/BTNK) - בטנך
> your womb, the belly. [Song of Solomon 7:2](http://biblehub.com/songs/7-2.htm): *"...thy belly is like an heap of wheat about with lilies."*

> This word also implies the womb: see [Key 3](3), The Empress, whose pregnant womb is surrounded by ripe wheat. Lilies are symbolic of self-conscious activity, as in [Key 1](1). Illumination is the ripe fruit of meditation. [Deuteronomy 7:13](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/7-13.htm): *"He will bless the fruit of your womb [בטנך], the crops of your land-your grain, new wine and oil-the calves of your herds and the lambs of your flocks in the land that he swore to your forefathers to give you."* see [61](61), [729](729).

---

### [kesah, kesseiy](/keys/KSA) - כסא
> throne. The "throne" is the adytum, or the third eye, which is unfolded by intense and prolonged meditation. also: chair, כסא, new moon or full moon. see [332](332)

---

### [kebe](/keys/KSA) - כסא
> time of the full moon.

---

### [ha-melah](/keys/H-MLAH) - ה מלאה
> the fullness.

---

### [paw](/keys/PA) - פא
> here, hither. [Job 38:11](http://biblehub.com/job/38-11.htm): *"And said, hitherto shalt thou come, but no further: and here shall thy proud waves be stayed?"* The letter name Peh is sometimes spelled פא. see [85](85).

---

### [avaad](/keys/AVOD) - אועד
> I will meet (G.G. Locks).

---

### [gehoneka](/keys/GChNK) - גחנך
> your belly (Locks).

---

### [velayil](/keys/VLILH) - ולילה
> and night.

---

### [le-achel](/keys/LAKL) - לאכל
> to be devoured, or consumed.

---

### [le-habdil](/keys/LHBDIL) - להבדיל
> to divide (Locks). *"Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night."* [Genesis 1:14](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-14.htm).

---

### [abodah, aybuddawh](/keys/OBDH) - עבדה
> service, body of servants; work; bondage. What is bondage to some is service to the One Life by its practitioners. see [82](82)

---

### [lelaia](/keys/LILIA) - ליליא
> night. vision and meditation succeed best at night, the "womb of Binah."

---

### [Kayon](/keys/KAIN) - כאין
> Night demon of 2nd decanate of Virgo. This decanate is ruled by Saturn, and suggest disorderliness, imprudence and unplanned activities in meditation, because of imbalance. According to Godwin, this is Camio, Goetic demon by night of the 1st decanate of Virgo. Davidson calls him Caim, Caym or Camio and says: *"Once of the order of Angels, Caim is now in hell, a great president. He manifest in the form of a thrush. As many of 30 legions of infernal spirits attend him."* [Dictionary of Angels, p. 79]

---

### [Aya](/keys/AIO) - איע
> 6th name of Shemhamphorash, short form, associated with the first quinance (1°-5°) of Cancer. see [112](112), [1525](1525).

---

### [Yelial](/keys/ILIAL) - יליאל
> "Hearer of Cries" 2nd Shemhamphorash, Angel of the 5 of Wands (Geburah of Atziluth). Rules Turkey. Corresponds to the influence of the Genie named ARICAN. 6°-10°. Rules March 21, June 1, August 12th, October 23, January 3.

> [Psalm 20:6](http://biblehub.com/psalms/20-6.htm). *"Now Irden of the valley of vision. know that the Lord saveth his anointed; he will hear him from his holy heaven with the saving strength of this right hand."*

> Godwin gives: Yelayel; angel of the 2nd quinance (6-10) of Leo; angel by night of the 5 of wands. This represents the operation of the sphere of volition in the archetypal world of ideas. Yeilial Godwin gives: Yeyaiel; angel of the 4th quinance (16°- 20°) of Taurus; angel by night of the 6 of Pentacles. This represents the operation of the central Ego in the material world of Action.

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Phoenix](/latin?word=Phoenix) (Latin)
> The legendary bird which lived for 500 years, was consumed by fire and was reborn from its own ashes. An alchemical term. The Book of Lambspring says: *"In India there is a most pleasant wood, in which two birds are bound together. One is of a snowy white; the other is red. They bite each other, and one is slain and devoured by the other. Then both are changed into white doves, and of the dove is born a phoenix, which has left behind blackness and foul death, and his regained a more glorious life. This power was given it by God himself, that it might live eternally, and never die. It gives us wealth, it preserves our life, and which it we may work great miracles, as also the true philosophers do plainly inform us."* [Hermetic Museum I, p. 280] Case: Phoenix = 81 = humidum = magia sancta. see [59](59) (Latin).

---

### [oculus](/latin?word=oculus) (Lt)
> eye. Pictured on the reverse of the great seal of the U.S. This is the eye of providence, which corresponds to the letter Ayin and the 3rd eye. see [70](70), [130](130), [237](237) Latin, [100](100) Latin.

---

### [sanctum](/latin?word=sanctum) (Lt)
> holy. As spelled in an inscription found in the vault of brother CR. One phrase of this reads *"Through the Holy Spirit we become alive again."* see [683](683), [191](191), [87](87) Latin. The eye of the I AM is holy and is approached by devotion and intense meditation.

---

### [noster](/latin?word=noster) (Lt)
> our. Our collective body is one in Christ. Part of a Rosicrucian saying: It is our refuge and strength and is best seen in Christ, our Lord. see [166](166), [85](85) Latin.

---

### English Gematria:

- [Company](/english?word=Company) *([Fama Intro p.12](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n12))*

### See Also:

- [9](9)