## 810 - Eight Hundred Ten
> (2x5x9x9)

---

### [El Chai Ha-Olahmim](/keys/AL.ChI.HOVLMIMf) - אל חי העולמים
> Living God of Ages. see [250](250).

---

### [be-Abraham](/keys/BABRHMf) - באברהם
> by or through Abraham. see [250](250).

---

### [beh bawreahm](/keys/BH.BRAMf) - בה בראם
> He created them with Heh (H). [Mem = 600] see [250](250).

---

### [behibawream](/keys/BHBRAMf) - בהבראם
> When they were created. [Genesis 2:4](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-4.htm): *"These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created."* Heh is raised as it to hint that it represents the second Heh in IHVH, which is called *"the upper, or superior Heh."* This corresponds to the Sephirah Binah, to the element Water, and Briah, the creative world. [Mem = 600] see [250](250), [813](813) (Greek).

> The Zohar [I:25A] says: *"It is in this way that God created worlds and destroyed them, viz. those who do not keep the precepts of this law; not that he destroys his own works, as some fancy. For why indeed, should he destroy his sons, of whom it is written: behibar'am (when they were created) in this passage, which may be analyzed into behe'beraam, 'He created them by means of Heh.' (symbolizing the attributed of mercy)?"*

---

### [dawrom](/keys/DRVMf) - דרום
> south, south wind; killed by beast. see [250](250).

---

### [Ahntiman](/keys/ANTIMNf) - אנטימן
> Antimony [Rabbinical Hebrew]. Metal of the earth. Perhaps the reason for Basil Valentine's emphasis on Antimony in his alchemical writings. Alchemists say that their Antimony is identically with the permanent water and the celestial water. It is therefore the same as the philosopher's Mercury. It is a cleansing and purifying agent. [Nun = 700] see [160](160).

---

### [simahn](/keys/SIMNf) - סימן
> mark, sign, omen; symptom, paragraph. [Sepher Yetzirah 2:4] *"22 basal letters: they are placed together in a ring, as a wall with 231 gates. The ring may be put in rotation forwards or backwards and its token is this: nothing excels pleasure (ONG) in good, and nothing excels NGO plague in evil."* [Nun = 700] see [160](160).

---

### [Cain, Qahyin](/keys/QINf) - קין
> Cain; a lance or spear; that which is pointed. Name of the first murderer. Refers to the false crown of willpower (Key 16) that is shattered by divine illumination from QNH to get, to gain, obtain. [Genesis 4:8](http://biblehub.com/genesis/4-8.htm): *"And Cain talked with Abel his brother: and it came to pass, when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him."* [Nun = 700] see [160](160).

> Jacob Boehmn avers: *"Cain, whereby is understood in the language of nature, a source out of the center of the fiery desire, a self-full will of the fiery might of the soul."* [Mysterium Magnium, p.166]

> Gaskell says that Cain is *"A symbol of the center of the personality -- the I am I feeling in the lower mind, which causes the illusion of separateness, and represents the lower self... The sense of self and separateness supervises the growth of the lower desires which spring form the lower nature... and the lower self, the personal 'I', now gains the power necessary for its evolution, and contrives to obscure the love element in the soul. The 'death of Abel' occurs when the higher general motive of live gives place to the dawn of individuality on the astral and mental planes."* [Dictionary of All Scriptures and Myths, p.18, 136]

> Finally, Carlo Suares has these observations: *"Qaheen, being YHWH itself, incarnate but in a state of amnesia, worships an image of itself, which he projects, thereby creating a distance between himself and himself. Since this form of worship reflects a lack of self-knowledge, it is rejected. This drama is at the core of human experience. We are told that Christ is within, or that there is an atman, immortally soul or essence within us. Instead of plunging into that living life, what do we do? We worship a picture of what we supposes it is, which cannot be but a projection of its shell or container... [Then] Qaheen understands its message. He becomes the container of timeless life; and, as such, he goes toward Hevel-man conditioned according to his time and location-and speaks to him, although their separation has already taken place. But Hevel cannot understand; he cannot even hear Qaheen's parable, and he dissolves into what he essentially is: a bladder of blood. This blood is drunk by the female, earth. The text does not say that Qaheen slays Hevel: it says that he is yaqam, meaning elevated, raised, exalted above him. So YHWH and Qaheen look for Hevel and do not fine him. There is only that pool of blood, which Adamah [50] the enormous female-to-be-conquered, is drinking. And it is the curse of this female which is upon Qaheen. It is preposterous to think that he is cursed by 'God'. On the contrary, it is written: Therefore, whosoever slays Cain, vengeance (of IHVH) shall be taken on him sevenfold ([Genesis 4:15](http://biblehub.com//.htm)). Qaheen will always re-emerge seven times more strongly: his number is 7: Qoph-Yod-Nun terminal, it is an intense life, terrifying to whoever curses it. Qahen, as life-death, life-death is the ceaseless, he is here, now present, as he was present always, although more often than not unidentified."* [The Cipher of Genesis, pp.137, 140-141] see [37](37).

---

### [mikkol etz-hagan aakol tokel](/keys/MKL.OTz.HGN.AKL.ThAKL) - מכל עץ הגן אכל תאכל
> you are free to eat from any tree of the garden. [Genesis 2:16](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-16.htm)

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: AKVL ThAKL feeding thou mayest feed upon... Here is a word, which, as the result of contraction, has become very difficult to understand, on account of the resemblance that it has acquired with certain different words which come form another root, and with which it can easily be confused. Its proper root must be sought for carefully, for Moses has attached great importance to this point. One can see by the pains that he has taken to repeat twice the same verb, first, as continued facultative, and afterward, as temporal future. This root is OVL, elementary matter, unknown substance, symbolized here by the universal convertible sign place between those of physical sense and expansive movement. This root which is conserved wholly in the Syriac [word] and in the Greek 􀂄􀂄􀂄, was famous among the Egyptians who made it play an important role n their mythology. One finds in Ethiopic the word achal signifying substance, essence, matter, nourishment. Element and aliment, hold to this through their common root.

> Furthermore, this root is used in Hebrew only in a restricted sense, and as it were, to nurse an infant, to give it its first nourishment. One finds OVLL to designate, an infant at the breast. When the Chaldic punctuation materializes completely this root in making consonantal the mother vowel Vav, then it develops ideas of injustice, crime and perversity. But if, instead of materializing the vowel, the character of the physical sense Ayin, is softened by substituting the sign of assimilated life Kaph; then this root written thus, KVL, expresses ideas of apprehension, of violent shock; of measure, of substantiation; if it is reduced to the single character KL, one obtains by this contraction, the analogous ideas of assimilation, of substance, and of consummation, whether one considers the action of consummation or of consuming. It is at this point that Moses has taken it, and giving it the exalted meaning which he conceived, he has made it rule by the sign of the power Aleph. In this state, the verb AKVL which is formed, has signified to feed upon, that is to say, to assimilate to one's self elementary matter as food. It must be remembered that the root OVL of which we are speaking is precisely the same as that which the Samaritan translator used to render the substance called OTz, by Moses, and the objects of alimentation expressed by the verb AKVL. [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, pp. 82-84]

> Swedenborg affirms that "to 'eat of every tree', is to known from perception what is good and true; for, as before observed, a 'tree' signifies perception." [Arcana Coelestia, p.61]

> The Zohar [I:35B] says: *"Of all the trees of the garden thou shall surely eat. This means that he was permitted to eat them all together, for, as we see, Abraham ate, Isaac and Jacob ate, and all the prophets ate and remained alive. This tree, however, was a tree of death, in so far that he who ate by itself was bound to die, since he took poison. Hence it says, in the day that thou eats thereof thou shall surely die, because thereby he would be separating the shoots."* (p.133)

> Gaskell, commenting on verse 16 + 17 says: *"And instruction by intuition is delivered to the mind (man) that experience is to be acquired through the activities of the lower nature. But it is not through the intuitive sense of absolute right and truth in self guidance, that the main's earlier evolution is to be promoted, for this is impossible to the lower mind, and at the period (day) when the soul ultimately arrives at a perfect knowledge of truth, the lower mind (man) will cease to exist. The natural course is otherwise, for at the stage when the fall of the ego into matter is accomplished, the direct perception of truth will cease from consciousness."* [Dictionary of All Scriptures and Myths, pp. 767- 768]

---

### [qashti](/keys/QShThI) - קשתי
> my bow. see [1211](1211). [Genesis 9:13](http://biblehub.com/genesis/9-13.htm)

> [beginning of text missing] *"...Appearance of the bow that is in the cloud in the day of rain, so was the appearance of the brightness round about. This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord. Containing, that is to say, all shades of all colors. The same is referred to in the text I have sent my bow in the cloud. The 'bow' here has a parallel in the text, 'but his bow abode firm' ([Genesis 49:24](http://biblehub.com/genesis/49-24.htm)) i.e. the covenant of Joseph, because he was a righteous man, had for its symbol the bow, since the bow is linked with the covenant, and the covenant and the righteous are integral in one another. And because Noah was righteous, the sign of his covenant was a bow (the word vyopozu, mentioned in connection with Joseph, is akin to the term paz (fine gold) in the passage, 'more to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold' ([Psalm 19:11](http://biblehub.com/psalm/19-11.htm)), and it means that his arms shone with the luster of the most desirable substance, they shone with the light supernal, since he had observed the covenant; hence he is named 'Joseph the righteous'. And the rainbow is therefore called 'covenant' because they embrace one another. Like the firmament it is a supernal resplendent glory, a sight of all sights, resembling the hidden one (the Shekhinah), containing colors undisclosed and unrevealable. Hence it is not permitted to gaze at the rainbow when it appears in the heavens, as that would be disrespectful to the shekinah, the hues of the rainbow here below being a replica of the vision of the supernal splendor, which is not for man's gaze. Hence when the earth saw the rainbow as a holy covenant, it was once more firmly established, and therefore God said, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between God, etc."* (pp.340-342)

> Gaskel adds that the bow in the cloud is *"a symbol of the higher mind as the bridge between the higher nature and the lower... between the divine nature and the soul there is to be a channel, or bridge, for purposes of conscious intercommunication, which is to extend from the cloud (truth, wisdom) downwards; and this is the constitute the connection between the personality (earth) and me, the individuality, or the lower nature and the higher."* [Dictionary of All Scriptures and Myths, p.123]

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [parakletos](/greek?word=paraklhTos) (Gr) - παρακλητος
> xxx [beginning of text missing] James Pryse says Parakletos is *"a legal assistant, advocate; a helper. The advocate is the breath manifesting in man as a positive force or creative principle. It is the pure fire, the vital electricity which awakens the 'third eye' of the seer. The accuser (diablols) is the reverse aspect of the same principle; the two are the forces respectively of generation and regeneration, of birth 'from below' and birth 'from above'. The Parakeltos can manifest only in the purified ascetic, in whom it becomes the initiator, the advocate with the father."* [The Magic Message According to Ionnes, p.176]

---

### See Also:

- [81](81)
- [9](9)
- [Bible Wheel: 888](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=888)

