## 814 - Eight Hundred Fourteen
> (2x11x37)

### [Seykel temidiy](/keys/ShKL.ThMIDI) - שכל תמידי
> Perpetual Intelligence. The [21st Path](21) of [Shin](/keys/Sh). Connects the sphere of Mercury (Intellect) to that of the Earth (Sensation). The power of this path works to perfect everyone of its personal vehicles by providing them with the spiritual body of the new creature-a physical body freed from the necessity for birth and death. Then the physical vehicle can be "laid down" and taken up again. The angel working here is Gabriel, another aspect of the Ego, to bring 4-dimensional consciousness in to the personality level-the truth that one already has eternal life. This is the path of the Holy letter of *"The Life-breath of the Creative Powers,"* [Ruach Elohim](/keys/RVCh.ALHIM). It is the fiery and electric prana, the energy source of all conscious activity-the center of which is the One Self. The possessor of this path learns to direct the Life-breath through creative use of imagery and sound. He knows that human life, even now, extends beyond the limits of the physical world, because he has directly experienced it. see [454](454), [478](478), [360](360), [300](300), [86](86), [464](464).

> [beginning of text missing] *"or prana, or the Life-breath in the human body; 'the revolutions of the zodiac' are the cycles of successive incarnation, and 'their judgement' is a reference to the spiritual body, which is evolved form the natural body at the completion of the creative process by the spiritual fire of Shin. 'The sun, in the microcosm, is the cardiac plexus. The moon is the pituitary body. A current of the life breath flows between these two centers and regulates their activity. Occult practice has much to do with the control of this current.'"* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (3rd), p.65]

> [beginning of text missing] *"release from three-dimensional limitations... the simple truth is that precisely this kind of practice is used my members of the very highest grades of the invisible order. No matter how far advanced one may be toward adeptship, the practice of symbolic mental imagery is a daily and indispensable mental exercise. Thus the further advance one really is, the better does he understand the value of this practice, and the reasons for its value. It is the mark of the tyro to underestimate the very things which are the chief treasures of the adept."* [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order (4th), p.291-294] see [464](464).

### [ehben ophel](/keys/ABNf.APL) - אבן אפל
> the concealed (hidden) stone. stone of thick darkness. [Job 28:3](http://biblehub.com/job/28-3.htm): "He sets an end to darkness, and searchs out all perfection: the stones of darkness, and the shadows of death." [Nun = 700] see [164](164).

### [ehben pehleh](/keys/ABNf.PLA) - אבן פלא
> the wonderful stone. Wonderful is an adjective applied to Kether and also to Christ. [Isaiah 9:6](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/9-6.htm): *"And his name shall be called, wonderful, counselor..."* In all true Rosicrucian texts Christ is identified with the hidden stone of the alchemist. When man rectifies his conception of the life he finds within himself, he discovers the hidden stone. [Nun = 700] see [164](164).

### [khitzon](/keys/ChITzVNf) - חיצון
> outer, external, exoteric. The manifested cosmos is seen as external to the self and as proceeding from that self as the heart of all being. In Tarot the emperor symbolizes civil authority, as contrasted to the hierophant as spiritual authority. He suggest material matters-the successful business executive, the result of an orderly use of the mind and direct focussed will. [Nun = 700] see [164](164).

### [Churam](/keys/ChVRMf) - חורם
> Chiram or Hiram Abiff. The personification of the Christos in the Roman allegory. Analyzed as חור, whiteness, and רם ram, height. Spelling of Hiram used in 2 Chronicles. [Mem = 600] see [254](254).

### [Rachum](/keys/RChVMf) - רחום
> merciful, compassionate.

### [ve-kheshek](/keys/VChShKf) - וחשך
> and darkness. [Genesis 1:2](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-2.htm): "And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the spirit of God [Elohim] moved upon the face of the waters." The processes of transformation take place gradually and in relative "darkness" until the light dawns. [Kaph = 500] see [1389](1389).

### See Also:

- [13](13)
- [4](4)
- [BibleWheel Database](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=814)
