## 836 - Eight Hundred Thirty-Six
> (4x11x19)

---

### [eth-giyd + chattawth](/keys/ATh-GID.ChTATh) - את־גיד חטאת
> The "sinew" with the creative essence + sin, punishment, a mist. The sinew is an esoteric reference to the diversion of nerve-currents of the Mars-force, from the lower to the higher centers. The same word meaning "sin" also means the sacrifice which atones for it. [ChTA to sin, miss the target]. see [418](418).

---

### [halaph](/keys/HALPf) - האלף
> [Peh = 800]. Halphas, i.e. ALP-H ("the spirit"); Goetic demon by night of the second decanate of Aries. This decanate is ruled by the sun and has the qualities of: exalted, enthusiastic, loyal. The influence of the demon suggest subconscious imbalance, resulting in self-centeredness and pride. The name of the demon suggest faulty vision and reason (Heh), forcing the Life-power into faith in false teaching (Lamed), perpetually goading in misdirected action (Peh). The 2nd decanate of Aries is also attributed to the 3 of Wands in the Tarot minor arcana. This corresponds to the operation of Binah (Saturn) in the archetypal world of Atziluth. It is the principle behind distinction, and thus the root of form, developing the awareness of potentially toward demonstration or manifestation. When ill-dignified, as here, it represents all manner of conceit, arrogance and insolence of the "know it all"; the concentration of selfconscious energy in established strength. To overcome the demon, there needs to be ability to rightly apply that power from above to the various centers below the Egoic level. see [116](116).

---

### [eth-yehudith](/keys/ATh-IHVDITh) - יהודית
[JUDITH](/keys/IHVDITh). see [435](435). [Genesis 26:34](https://biblehub.com/genesis/26-34.htm): *"And Esau was forty years old when he took to wife Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Bashemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite"*

---

### [eth-tzipharineha](/keys/ATh-TzPRNIH) - את־צפרניה
[HER NAILS](/keys/TzPRNIH). see  ([836](836)). [Deuteronomy 21:12](https://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/21-12.htm): *"Then thou shalt bring her home to thine house; and she shall shave her head, and pare **her nails**"*

---

### See Also:

- [17](17)
- [8](8)
- [Bible Wheel: 836](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=836)
