## 840 - Eight Hundred Forty
> (3x5x7x8)

---

### [Canaan](/keys/KNONf) - כנען
> Canaan, the son of Ham and the original name of the Land of Palestine. Also: flat, low (see [190](190), [54](54), [160](160)). [Nun = 700]

> In the Canon [p.302] we read: *"But not only was the whole earth conceived as an illustration of the canon law, but every country was seemingly made to conform to the same hypothetical standard -- Palestine for instance, being regarded by the Jews and Christians as the canonical land, while a similar idea guided the Greeks in assigning a mystical significance to the various regions and cities of their country. The word Canaan, applies to the holy land seems to have some connection with the word canon. In Greek Χαναάν is derived from [word] or [word], a reed, and meant a measuring rod or carpenter's rule. The Hebrew word for a reed is קנה ([kanah](/keys/QNH)), and is presumably of a kindred origin. Numerically קנה is equivalent to [155](155), and this number denotes its purport as a symbol.. and the land of Canaan, or Palestine, measures form Dan to Beersheba about 155 miles. The Hebrew name כנען yields 840, a number... discussed in the name microcosmos."*

---

### [Tzoor yelawdekah](/keys/TzVR.ILDKf) - צור ילדך
> Rock that begat thee. see [360](360).

---

### [shemkah](/keys/ShMKf) - שמך
> "thy name." see [360](360).

---

### [Panin](/keys/PNINf) - פנין
> Pearl; one of the titles of Malkuth, the Kingdom. [Nun = 700] see [496](496), [190](190).

> Gaskel says that the pearl is a *"symbol of experience with its outcome, the Gnosis or knowledge of the soul-process. The Gnosis is ultimately found first through the awakenment of the Ego by the clamor of this kama-manasic [desire-mind, or animal soul] nature, for it is through this desire side of his nature, that he first begins to function as a truly human entity, and its is from this mentality, therefore, that the germ of experience which from this viewpoint is another expression for the "pearl", is collected and transferred to the higher plane of the beings consciousness. It must be remembered that all experience is only the reflection, piecemeal, upon the lower plane of that compete Gnosis which is above; the ideal actualizing, as it were... the divine parents enjoin- 'If thou, our son, journeys deep down into the domain of illusion, and carries forth from thence the 'pearl' of experience giving control of the lower realms and bringing intuitive knowledge-the Gnosis-which 'pearl' is in the astral keeping, betwixt the lower emotions and the desire of the flesh, ?hard? by the passions and animal sense, wherein experience and power to control is gained; then shall thou arise and assume for thyself thy higher vehicles causal and buddhic, and with our brother, thy causal self, thou shall inherent the heavens."* [Dictionary of All Scriptures and Myths, p.565]

---

### [Moph](/keys/MPf) - מף
> Memphis; the capital of Egypt. A variant name-see [850](850). Sometimes used as a name for Egypt itself. see [380](380). Mentioned in [Hosea 9:6](http://biblehub.com/hosea/9-6.htm): *"Even if they escape from destruction, Egypt shall gather them and Memphis will bury them. There treasures of silver will be taken over by briers, and thorns will overrun their tents."* see [120](120).

---

### [lememsheleth](/keys/LMMShLTh) - לממשלת
> to rule. for-governing-of. [Genesis 1:16](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-16.htm): *"God made two great lights -- the great light to govern the day and the lesser to govern the night."*

> According to Fabre D'Olivet *"לממשלת, for-a-symbolic-representation... The Hellenists have translated this... which is the most restricted interpretation; for in short, it is evident that the sun and moon rule over the day and night. Indeed Moses would be but littel understood if one were to stop at an idea so trivial. The verb משול means, it is true, to be ruler, judge, or prince; but it signifies much oftener to be the model, the representation, the symbol of something; to speak in allegories, in parables, to present a similitude, an emblem, a figure. This verb is produced from the root שו which, containing in itself every idea of parity, similitude and representation, is joined to the signs Mem and Lamed, to express its exterior action and its relative movement in the phrase with witch we are occupied, this verb is used according to the intensive form, and consequently invested with the continued facultative of the sign Mem, which doubles the force of its action. The word [Samaritan word], made use of by the Samaritan version in this instance, signifies likewise to speak allegorically, to use parables."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored (cosmogony), p.46-47](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/46/mode/2up)]

> F.J. Mayers comments: *"Then we have the word translated by 'to rule', 'memesheleth' the basic word is 'meshol', it means, sometimes 'to preside', 'to be a judge', 'to rule', but much more often it means 'to be a model', a 'representative', a 'symbol' of anything; 'to speak in allegories or parables,' to present a 'similitude, or emblem, or figure of anything.' To go still a little farther into detail, the actual root of the word 'meshol' is 'sho', which indicates ideas of 'parity', similitude', representation, etc. all this makes it quite clear that 'memesheleth' actually means 'symbolic representations of things to be.'"* [[The Unknown God, p.52](http://www.organelle.org/as/aschap10.htm)] see [641](641).

---

### See Also:

- [84](84)
- [12](12)
- [3](3)
- [BibleWheel](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=840)
