## 858 - Eight Hundred Fifty-Eight
> (2x3x11x13)

---

### [Ateh Gibor le-Olam Adonai](/keys/AThH.GBVR.LOVLM.ADNI) - אתה גבור לעולם אדני
> Thou art mighty forever, O Lord; "Thine is the power of the aeons, O Lord." In magical manuscripts, we find often the "name" [אגלא], [Agla](/keys/AGLA) as a Notariqon (shorthand) for the above. see [65](65), [76](76), [406](406), [1445](1445), [1418](1418), [211](211), [176](176).

---

### [be-tzelem Elohim bara othu](/keys/BTzLM.ALHIM.BRA.AThV) - בצלם אלהים ברא אתו
> In the image of God created he them.

---

### [Rachamim](/keys/RChMIMf) - רחמים
> Compassion, a title of Tiphareth.

---

### [neshemath chaiim](/keys/NShMTh.ChIIM) - נשמת חיים
> the breath of life. [Genesis 2:7](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-7.htm): *"And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul."* see [395](395), [68](68), [18](18).

> Fabre D'Olivet translates this phrase as: *"A being exalted, an essence of the lives", and comments: נשמת, a being exalted... this is the verb שמוח, whose root שמ expresses that which is exalted, employed according to the enunciative form, passive movement, as continued facultative, feminine construction."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.75] see [340](340).

> The Zohar [I:49A] comments: *"And he breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. The breath of life was enclosed in the earth, which was made pregnant with it like a female impregnated by the male. So the dust and the breath were joined, and the dust became filled with spirits and souls. And the man became a living soul. At this point he attained his proper form, and became a man to support and nourish the living soul."* (P.156)

> Gaskell calls the breath of life *"A symbol of the spiritual essence-the divine spark, atma-buddhi, which is immortal", and comments: "And into this lower mind, or astro-mental body, was projected the divine spark, and thence the man (manasic being) became a creature capable of responsible, independent existence."* [Dictionary of All Scriptures and Myths, p.126]

> Carlo Suares comments: *"We see that the letter Peh appears in 'dust' 'breathes', 'nostrils' and that Shin appears in 'breath'. the result of the operation is Adam becoming a living nephesh. Peh stands for all the undeveloped strata of energy. It is given life in Adam by Shin, the cosmic metabolism... The truth is that this genesis, this creation of a complete Adam, has not yet taken place-although it may now be in process of becoming. We can begin to understand this allegory when-rather than imagining it as a mere myth of our remote past-we see that potentially, the complete Adam can come into being within us now. Adam is seeking birth, but we stifle it every day in its womb."* [The Cipher of Genesis, p.105]

> Swedenborg adds: *"The reason why life is described by 'breathing' and by 'breath', is also that the men of the most ancient church perceived states of love and faith by states of respiration, which were successively changed in their posterity. Of this respiration nothing as yet can be said, because at this day such things are altogether unknown. The most ancient people were well acquainted with it, and so are those who are in the other life, but no longer any one of this earth, and this was the reason why they likened spirit of life to 'wind'... That the 'breath; (spiragulum)' is used for the life of faith and of love appears from [Job 22:8](http://biblehub.com/job/22-8.htm): 'He is the spirit in man, and the breath of Shanddai gives them understanding'"* [Arcana Coeiestia, pp.50-51] [incorrect quote]

---

### [ve-eth hamaweth](/keys/VATh-HMVTh) - ואת־המות
> and the death. [Deuteronomy 30:15](http://biblehub.com/deuteronomy/30-15.htm): *"See, I have set before you this day life and good, and death and evil..."* Life and death are the pair of opposites assigned to Mercury, which rules Gemini, or [Key 6](6). Raphael symbolizes Mercury. The Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil is close to the woman, or sub-consciousness who is receptive to the angel. see [3760](3760), [932](932) (Greek).

---

### [nethboth](/keys/NThBVTh) - נתבות
> paths, trodden paths. Variant spelling. see [868](868).

---

### See Also:

- [21](21)
- [3](3)
