## 882 - Eight Hundred Eighty-Two
> (2x3x3x7x7)

---

### [Sekhel Manhig ha-Achdoth](/keys/ShKL.MNHIG.HAChDVTh) - שכל מנהיג האחדות
> Uniting Intelligence or Inductive Intelligence of Unity (literally "Driver (or Leader) of the Unities.") The [13th Path](13) of [Gimel](/keys/G) represents the manifestation of the subconsciousness of Yekhidah, the Cosmic Self, as the basis for manifesting the One Ego. Last of the Paths of the Tree with 2-directional movement-outward and downward from above, and inward and upward from below. see [237](237), [73](73), [3](3), [532](532).

> [beginning of text missing] force of the radiant energy concentrated in Kether. It is the "perfection of the truths of spiritual unities" because "all the paths, when they are united with the supreme unity are joined thereto through this 13th path, for אחד [echad](/keys/AChD), unity, resolved into a number gives 13." [Latin Commentary].

> The power of recollection is basic to this path. The master of this path realizes that the Ego is really the reflection of Yekhidah in Kether. To "reign with all heaven" is to be an open channel for the expression of the primal will-togood in Kether; one's thoughts, words and actions are acts of conscious participation in he divine life. To be "served by all hell" is to be able to put to good use all the powers of the astral plane.

> *"The thirteenth path, Gimel, brings beauty into activity and thus begins to be active before Mercy and Severity. As in creation the beauty of visible nature was manifest before creatures to whom Mercy and Severity could be shown were brought forth."* [32 Paths]

> *"I am the Uniting Intelligence, linking all opposites together with the bonds of perfect peace."* [Meditations of the Paths of Wisdom]

---

### [arach chayim lemaaleh lemaskil](/keys/ARCh.ChIIM.LMOLH.LMShKIL) - ארח חיים למעלה למשכיל
> "The way of life is above for the wise". Note: maskil, wise, erudite, is a title of Yesod. see [400](400). [Proverbs 15:24](http://biblehub.com/proverbs/15-24.htm): *"The way of life is above to the wise, that he may depart from hell beneath."*

---

### [Ibrim](/keys/IBRIMf) - יברים
> Hebrews. With prefix Heh in [Exodus 7:16](http://biblehub.com/exodus/7-16.htm): *"And thou shall say unto him, the Lord God of the Hebrews has sent me unto you, saying, let my people go, that they may serve me in the wilderness: and, behold, hither to thou would not hear."* [Mem = 600] see [322](322).

---

### [Lebarmem](/keys/LBRMIMf) - לברמים
> Lesser assistant angel of Sagittarius; Lord of triplicity by night. Sagittarius is a mutable Fire sign, attributed to support and to the Holy Guardian Angel. the name may be analyzed as לב heart = [32](32) + Resh face, head = [300](300) + מים water = [90](90) = Tzaddi meditation. [Mem = 600] see [Key 14](14), [322](322).

---

### See Also:

- [18](18)
- [9](9)
- [Bible Wheel: 882](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=882)
