## 895 - Eight Hundred Ninety-Five
> ([5](5) x [179](179)). Age of antediluvian patriarch [Mahalaleel](/keys/MHLLAL) when he died. ([Genesis 5:17](https://biblehub.com/genesis/5-17.htm))

---

### [Adam Qadmon](/keys/ADM.QDMVNf) - אדם קדמון
> the archetypal of heavenly man; protogonos. Represented by the ten sephiroth in their totality and unity. QDMVN means eastern, ancient, old; epithet of God. [Nun = 700] see [245](245), [200](200).

---

### [yesodoth has-qadosh](/keys/ISVDVTh.HQDSh) - יסודות הקדש
> the foundations. Said of Daleth, the 14th Path of the Luminous Intelligence, which is the "instructor in the secret foundations of holiness and perfection" [Yetziratic Text]. The path is also the "instructor of arcana". see [486](486), [404](404).

---

### [ashkoloth + tzemakh](/keys/AShKLVTh.TzMCh) - אשכלות צמח
> clusters, bunches of grapes plus the branch. The "clusters" refers to HOD and NTzCh Netzach; and this value of [757](757) equals KThM AVPIR gold of Ophir. The "branches" is the name of the Messiah, i.e. he who builds the temple of the Lord. see [757](757), [138](138). Netzach and Hod are the spheres of desire and intellect, which must be balanced by the guidance of the higher self.

---

### [de-malkuth ha-shamaim](/keys/DMLKVTh.HShMIM) - דמלכות השמים
> The kingdom of the heavens; kingdom of heaven. Hebrew version of Greek in [Matthew 13:11] "He answered and said unto them, 'because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given." see [1456](1456).

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [ho huios Habraam](/greek?word=o+uios+abraam) (Gr) - ὁ υἱός Ἀβραάμ
> The son of Abraham; epithet applied to Jesus in the genealogy of Matthew: appears as υἱοῦ Ἀβραάμ (son of Abraham) in [Matthew 1:1](https://biblehub.com/interlinear/matthew/1-1.htm): *"A register of the lineage of Jesus Christ, son of David, son of Abraham."*

---

### [ho amen ho Messias](/greek?word=o+amhn+o+messias) (Gr) - ὁ ἀμήν ὁ Μεσσίας
> the amen: the Messiah. Epithets of Christ. see [2368](2368), [91](91), [656](656), [258](258).

---

### [Ho Hydranos](/greek?word=o+udranos) (Gr) - ὁ ὑδράνὸς
> The Lustrator; title of hierophant in the lesser mysteries. [from (word), to water, sprinkle, bedew with water; to wash oneself, bathe. Also note that (Ὕδρα) = waterserpent] *"In his true Hellenic character Ioannes (whose name appears to be a variant of Oannes) is 'the bather'... in the text hydranos has been replaced by baptistes, 'baptist', and ho baptizon, 'the baptizer'. But baptistes is proper 'a dyer'; the substitution is not clever, not even specious, but the forger had to get rid of the word hydranos, which even the most ignorant Greek would have recognized the title of the lesser hierophant. This rite of lustration, a symbolic purification by water, was not employed be the Jews, and is not mentioned in their scriptures; but it was the most important ceremony in the lesser mysteries of Greeks."* [James Pryse: The Restored New Testament, p.22]

---

### [pater, filius, spiritus sanctus, natura divina, Deus + anima, corpus, spiritus, natura humana, homo](/latin?word=pater+filius+spiritus+sanctus+natura+divina+Deus+anima+corpus+spiritus+natura+humana+homo) (Lt)
> Father, Son, Holy Spirit God plus soul, body, spirit, human nature, man. Sum of the two phrases in [Secret Symbols]

---

### See Also:

- [22](22)
- [4](4)
- [Bible Wheel: 895](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=895)

