## 898 - Eight Hundred Ninety-Eight
> (2x449)

---

### [sawrin be-kawl ha-aretz](/keys/ShRIM.BKL-HARTz) - שרים בכל הארץ
> Princes in all the earth. [Psalm 45:16](http://biblehub.com/psalms/45-16.htm): *"Instead of thy fathers shall be thy children, whom you may make princes in all the earth."* The "earth" is the manifested world, or Malkuth. see [550](550), [500](500), [50](50), [291](291).

---

### [keseph chai](/keys/KSPf.ChI) - כסף חי
> Living silver; Quicksilver, the Mercury of the sages. Also called the first matter of the [Stone](/keys/ABN), אבן. Attributed to the 4th sephirah, [Chesed](/keys/ChSD), beneficence or Mercy, sphere of Jupiter or cosmic memory, an aspect of the Moon, attributed to silver. It also implies Yesod, sphere of the Moon. Memory helps to dedicate the forces of generation to making the stone. [Peh = 800] see [178](178), [570](570), [949](949).

---

## Greek

---

### [legion](/greek?word=legiOn) (Gr) - λέγων
> a legion; a very large number. [Mark 5:9](http://biblehub.com/mark/5-9.htm): *"Then Jesus asked him, 'What is your name?' 'My name is Legion,' he replied, 'for we are many.'"* see [1244](1244), [2209](2209), [970](970) (Greek).

---

### [Euterpe](/greek?word=euTerPh) (Gr) - Eὐτέρπη
> The muse of music, mainly Dionysiac; patroness of joy and pleasure, and of flute-players. A Pythagorean name for 8. "Because it is the most mutable (μαλιστα ευτρεπτος) of all the numbers within the decad, being evenly-even... it can be divided by 2 as far as to unity." [Thomas Taylor: Theoretic Arithmetic, p.200]

---

### [hoi (zeta) asteres](/greek?word=oi+z+asteres) (Gr) - οι Ζ αστερες
> the 7 stars. Written ἑπτὰ ἀστέρες in [Revelation 1:20](http://biblehub.com/revelation/1-20.htm): "As for the secret of the seven stars which you saw in my right hand, and the seven golden lampstands; the seven stars are messengers (angels) of the seven congregations, and the seven lampstands are the seven congregations." see [897](897), [979](979), [1987](1987), [4303](4303). Note that 7 + 1 (Christ) = 8.

---

### See Also:

- [25](25)
- [7](7)
