## 899 - Eight Hundred Ninety-Nine
> (29x31)

---

### [Seykel Moragash](/keys/ShKL.MVRGSh) - שכל מורגש
> Exciting or Active Intelligence. The [27th Path](27) of [Peh](/keys/P). Joins the field of desire (Venus) to that of intellect (Mercury) on the Tree of life. On the Cube of Space Peh is assigned the northern face.

> *"The 27th Path is called the Exciting or Active Intelligence because thence is created the spirit of every creature under the supreme orb and the assemblage of them all."* [Book of Formation]

> The possessor of this path is said *"to foresee all future events which do not depend of a superior free will, or an all undiscernible cause"* [Eliphas Levi]

> There is a definite connection between consciousness which forms itself into speech and the electrical energy which is the basis of all activity -- the "Word of Life," the whirling breath that emanates and returns like a lighting-flash. The power of Peh is that of the Mars-force, an electrical fluidic aspect of the cosmic mind-stuff, identical to the fiery "water" of the Alchemists. It has its root in the nature of Geburah, the divine volition. The possessor of this path knows God directly as an indwelling presence and the knowledge it brings carries powers to forecast the course of human events. It is as if the current descending from Geburah though Tiphareth to Netzach were reflected back to Hod through this path. The one reality is the exciting cause of all manifestation throughout the universe. From it is formed the spirit, or inner essence, of every creature. From it proceeds the motion, or activity, to which they are subject. [Paul Case: True and Invisible, (Weiser) p.202](https://archive.org/stream/PaulFosterCase-TheTrueAndInvisibleRosicrucianOrder4thEd-1985#page/n208) see [549](549), [503](503), [91](91), [474](474), [84](84), [786](786), [90](90), [395](395), [80](80), [85](85), [696](696).

> *"The Path of Peh, which joins Victory to Splendor is analogous to the paths of Daleth and Teth. It is the Exciting Intelligence, and it follows the Renewing Intelligence because the sense of limitation sooner or later gives way to the conviction that this limitation is not permanent. This conviction is man's chief incentive to the kinds of action which will lead to freedom. It originates in an intuitive perception that the spirit of man is one with the universal spirit which, as we have seen, must necessarily succeed in carrying out the great purpose of which it project itself in a universe. This intuitive perception comes suddenly like a lighting-flash and usually overthrows the whole conception of the meaning of life held previously by him to whom it comes. This is an experience, not only of a single person, but also to whole races at certain stages of their development. It is the great influence which effects sweeping changes in the thought and work of the world."* [32 Paths]

> *"I am the Exciting Intelligence, breaking down all structures of error and false knowledge."* [Meditations on the Paths of Wisdom]

---

### [matemeni masettawrim](/keys/MTMNI.MSThRIM) - מתמני מסתרים
> hidden riches of secret places. [Isaiah 45:3](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/45-3.htm): *"And I will give you the treasures of darkness, and hidden riches of secret places, that you may know that I, the Lord, which call thee by your name, am the God of Israel."* These "hidden riches" are linked to the use of the power of Peh. (Listed with the connective Vav, under [905](905))

---

### [ha-beytu eltur chutzbethem](/keys/HBITV.AL-TzVR.ChTzBThM) - הביטו אל צור חצבתם
> Look to the rock from which you were cut. [Isaiah 51:1](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/5-1.htm): *"Listen to me, you who pursue righteousness and who seek the Lord: Look to the rock from which you were cut and to the quarry from which you were hewn;"* The "rock" is a title of God, connecting it with [Key 4](4) and the Stone of the wise, which is completed by Mars. see [296](296), [836](836).

---

### See Also:

- [26](26)
- [8](8)