## 90 - Ninety
> 2x5x9. Number of degrees in the angle formed by lines constituting the vertical line and base of a Pythagorean triangle. Therefore the number 90 defines the union of the Mother, Isis, with the Father, Osiris.

> Sum of the perimeters of the 5 Platonic solids (6, 10, 14, 22, 38).

> 9x10 = The operation of Yesod through the 10 Lights of Emanation [Book of Tokens].

---

### [Tzaddi](/keys/Tz) - צ
> Key 17 assigned to meditation, the process whereby the wise attain to conscious union with the Life-power via the Water which is the "Mute, dark mirror." The Zohar (Page 10) states that Tzaddi consist of a nun (Fish) surmounted by a Yod (hand), thus representing together the male and female principles of creation. Using Tzaddi, the fish-hook via meditation, raises Nun, the fish, out of the "Water" or subconsciousness into the region of self-conscious awareness; it also raises the Scorpio force to awaken the higher brain centers. *"The letter Tzaddi means "fish-hook," signifying that which draws the fish (Nun) out of the water (Mem)."* [The Tarot, Paul Foster Case]

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"This character as consonant, belongs to the hissing sound, and describes an onomatopoeia, all object which have relations with the air and wind. As symbolic image, in represents the refuge of man, and the end toward which he tends. It is the final and terminative sign, having reference to scission, limit, solution, end. Placed at the beginning of words it indicates the movement which carries toward the limit of which it is the sign; placed at the end, it marks the very limit where it has tended."* [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p.430-431]

> *"The letter Peh immediately precedes the letter Tzaddi in the alphabet. This is to teach that guarding one's mouth from slander, gossip, foul language, and so on, is the means by which one attains the level of the Tzadik, the righteous one."* [Letters of Fire, Rabbi Glazerson] see [20](20), [106](106), [477](477), [104](104).

> *"...Saturn rules Aquarius, and Aquarius among the Holy Living Creatures, is the one who wears the face of the man, and that is of אדם. So too in the Rota the 12th Key is the suspended אדם, and when meditation reaches its perfection the Stable Intelligence is manifest, and nothing can move it."* [Commentary - 19th Communication 6/18/48]

> Paul Case observes: *"The character of Tzaddi is really a small Kaph, which forms the lower part of the letter, combined with two Yods thus the toal secret value of this character is the sum of the values of Kaph and two Yods, or 20 + 10 +10, that is, 40. This indicates a secret connection between the character for Tzaddi and the letter Mem which is also 40. Such a connection is also implied by the attribution of the sign Aquarius to Tzaddi, since Aquarius means water-bearer, and Mem means water. Furthermore, the function of meditation serves to bring about the changes of personal conscoiusness which leads to the mental reversal pictured in Key 12, corresponding to Mem. Note, too that the Letter-name מים adds to 90, which is the ordinary vale of the letter Tzaddi. This cinches the correspondence."* [Tarot Practice Course]

---

### [Letter Name Mem](/keys/MIM) - מים
> waters, that which flows. (mute, dark mirror). Alchemical water, microcosmically, is the cosmic fire specialized in the nerve currents and chemistry of the blood. It is purified by the image-making faculty of the Ego expressing through human personality. the purification of this Water must be the first work of the alchemist. Electricity is a fluid, identical with the Mars-force.

> *"Especially important because it [90] is the number of the right angle or square, typifying measurement; also it is the number of the single letter Tzaddi, which suggest a connection between the suspension of personal activity pictured by the Hanged Man and the revelation of the truth about natural law pictured by The Star." [Gematria of the Letter Names]*

> Here is the "fixed water," which is the First Matter, duly prepared, and in the Tarot this is the Hanged Man, suspended over a dry water-course. Note that he hangs from a Tav. He is centered. The flow is stopped, or suspended, and all personal considerations are eliminated, like the lopped branches of the trees. But the glory is there, and the perfection, for מים, though it is 90, is also [650](650), if one takes the final ם as 600. Then the water is the "dry water," and the 650 is אדני multiplied by Yod, or היכל multiplied by the same Yod. And the Lord and His Temple are One, and this is centered in גוף, GUPH, as you have learned. All this points straight, if one finds the door; but few there be that find it. [10th Communication] see [89](89)

---

### [domam](/keys/DVMM) - דומם
> a great silence, still, silent, dumb, "in silence". Qabalist say "Mem is mute, like water." It is the mute dark mirror of substance, reflecting deity to itself in a "Great Silence." [Book of Tokens]

---

### [Melek](/keys/MLK) - מלך
> King. One of the names for Tiphareth. As a verb mawlak: to administer, to reign, to rule, to counsel. see [40](40). As a noun [meyleyk](/keys/MLK): "king, ruler, prince". It refers to Tiphareth as the seat of the Higher Ego or Christos which has dominion over all things. The essential Spirit of Man is the dominant power in creation. see [45](45), [52](52), [67](67), [311](311), [1081](1081). The alchemical water is actually the agency whereby the rule or administration of the Life-power is established over all forms and condition of manifested being.

> *"And what said the King, speaking through that Guph men know by the name of Yeshua? Said He not, 'I am the living water?' And behold, מים is 90, and so is מלך; and thus Yeshua stilled the waters (seas), for he knew that Adonai Melek is Lord of the Waters. אדני מלך numbereth [155](155), and here is אל in fivefold expression, for אל is 31."* [7th Communication] see [155](155), [36](36), [89](89)

> *"The Son is one with the Father, and the King is one with the Seas, and the Man is the symbol of the division of the Seas. For בן and אימא are both [52](52), and מלך is like מים (which is [90](90)), while אדם is [45](45), the half of division of [90](90). These are the names of Tiphareth. See then that מלך and אדם are really the same even in number, for though [45](45) is the half of [90](90), 4 and 5 total 9, and 9 and 0 total 9 also. Furthermore the extension of 9 is [45](45). Thus אדם and מלך are essentially one, but since מלך is [90](90), and this is the number of מים, the Seas, the King, like the Son, is one with the Mother, for אימא is also the root of water, and that is the root of מים, and besides, אימא is named also the great Sea....in this does the royalty of the King have its root, that he is one with the Kingdom or Bride, and one with the Mother also. Now in מים, the Seas, the Rota shows you the hanged or suspended אדם, thus is his head surrounded with the glory of the sphere of the Sun. He is the מלך or King, and his power to rule is the consequence of his utter dependence on what supports him - which is the power at the center corresponding to the letter Tav. Again both מלך and מים are related to the letter Tzaddi by the number 90, and what is Tzaddi in the Rota but the Mother unveiling herself to those who succeed in meditation, as did our Father Abraham according to the Book of Formation?"* [19th Communication] see [45](45), [52](52), [434](434), [400](400).

> *"A king (refering to the truth that the personal exercise of dominion is really just the reverse of what most people supposed it to be, since we rule nature by stricly obeying her laws."* [Gematria of the Letter-Names]

---

### [lakem](/keys/LKM) - לכם
To you. [Genesis 1:29](https://biblehub.com/genesis/1-29.htm): *"And God said, Behold, I have given **you** every herb bearing seed, which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; **to you** it shall be for meat.
"*

---

### [Lamek](/keys/LMK) - למך
> Powerful. Old Testement patriarch [Genesis 4:18](http://biblehub.com/genesis/4-18.htm) who, according to Masonic tradition, was the father of that ancient craft. The Greek spelling is [676](676) the square of [26](26) (יהוה). Alchemical water is related to all things having to do with creation and construction.

---

### [mikkol](/keys/MKL) - מכל
of every.

- [Genesis 7:2](https://biblehub.com/genesis/7-2.htm): *"**Of every** clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens, the male and his female: and of beasts that are not clean by two, the male and his female"*
- [Genesis 8:20](https://biblehub.com/genesis/8-20.htm): *"And Noah builded an altar unto the LORD; and took **of every** | clean beast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt offerings on the altar"*
- [Leviticus 11:34](https://biblehub.com/leviticus/11-34.htm): *"**Of all** meat which may be eaten, that on which such water cometh shall be unclean: and all drink that may be drunk in every such vessel shall be unclean"*
- [Numbers 18:29](https://biblehub.com/numbers/18-29.htm): *"**Out of all** your gifts ye shall offer every heave offering of the LORD, of all the best thereof, even the hallowed part thereof out of it"*
- [Joshua 23:14](https://biblehub.com/joshua/23-14.htm): *"And, behold, this day I am going the way of all the earth: and ye know in all your hearts and in all your souls, that not one thing hath failed **of all** | the good things which the LORD your God spake concerning you; all are come to pass unto you, and not one thing hath failed thereof"*
- [Judges 13:14](https://biblehub.com/judges/13-14.htm): *"She may not eat **of any** thing that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing: all that I commanded her let her observe"*
- [Judges 20:16](https://biblehub.com/judges/20-16.htm): *"**Among all** | this people there were seven hundred chosen men lefthanded; every one could sling stones at an hair breadth, and not miss"*
- [Psalm 31:11](https://biblehub.com/psalms/31-11.htm): *"I was a reproach **among all** mine enemies, but especially among my neighbours, and a fear to mine acquaintance: they that did see me without fled from me"*
- [Psalm 39:8](https://biblehub.com/psalms/39-8.htm): *"Deliver me **from all** my transgressions: make me not the reproach of the foolish"*
- [Psalm 119:99](https://biblehub.com/psalms/119-99.htm): *"I have more understanding **than all** my teachers: for thy testimonies are my meditation"*
- [Psalm 119:101](https://biblehub.com/psalms/119-101.htm): *"I have refrained my feet **from every** evil way, that I might keep thy word"*
- [Proverbs 4:23](https://biblehub.com/proverbs/4-23.htm): *"Keep thy heart **with all** diligence; for out of it are the issues of life"*
- [Ezekiel 18:28](https://biblehub.com/ezekiel/18-28.htm): *"Because he considereth, and turneth away **from all** his transgressions that he hath committed, he shall surely live, he shall not die."*

---

### [mahn, min](/keys/MN) - מן
> to apportion; who? What? a chord. A root appearing in the word man, moon, month. It is the Sanskrit name for a measure of weight. It refers to man, the measurer, and is directly connected with the 6 of Cups as the seat of the distinguishing, discriminating faculty of the Ego. It also refers to the mysterious food of the Children of Israel during their years of wandering in the Wilderness. The fall of Fire and Water from the Heavens is our true source of Sustenance. The sweet "salt dew of heaven: is the purified body of the adept which actually has a sweet savor and odor. *[Exodus 16:15](http://biblehub.com/exodus/16-15.htm) "And when the Children of Israel saw it, they said one to another, it is Manna, for they know not what it was."* see [786](786), [899](899), [395](395).

---

### [Jakin](/keys/IKIN) - יכין
> the firm or strong one; patron From a Semitic root meaning "unity" and refers to the creative power of the One Thing. The white pillar, the pillar of mercy of the Tree of Life has the same underlying significance as "Yod Tetragrammaton". The pillar of establishment Solomon set before the porch of the temple, and which is the royal secret (silence) of the lifepowers reign. In Masonry: He will establish. see [740](740).

> *[1 Kings 7:21](http://biblehub.com/1_kings/7-21.htm) He erected the pillars at the portico of the temple. The pillar to the south he named Jakin and the one to the north Boaz.*

---

### [yamim](/keys/IMM) - ימם
> hot springs. incorrectly translated "Mules" in the authorized version of [Genesis 36:24](http://biblehub.com/genesis/36-24.htm). The union of Fire and Water.

---

### [kellawliy or kelewli](/keys/KLLI) - כללי
> Collective; all-inclusive. From the adjective כלל, [kellawl](/keys/KLL), signifying "whole, complete." The 30th path of Resh has to do with the completion of the Great Work in the production of the new creature, evolved from the natural man by the Life-power, working through the mental, emotional and physical activities of a human personality. The collective Intelligence is more than a mere aggregate. It does include the sum-total of all modes of conscious life, but it transcends when it includes. see [510](510), [250](250), [640](640), [53](53).

---

### [ha-Yesodah](/keys/H.ISVDH) - ה יסודה
> the Foundation (fem).

---

### [yezuz](/keys/OZVZ) - עזוז
> strong, powerful, mighty, majestic. Also עזוז might, force, fierceness. see [333](333). "The Lord strong and mighty" Here yezuz is the word used for "mighty".

---

### [goalenu](/keys/GALNV) - גאלנו
> our redeemer [Isaiah 47:4](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/47-4.htm). (The Lord of Hosts is his name). see [127](127), [525](525), [961](961), [1066](1066), [1912](1912).

---

### [laib ha-ehben](/keys/LB-HABN) - לב האבן
> the heart of the stone, "the stoney heart" *[Ezekiel 11:19](http://biblehub.com/ezekiel/11-19.htm) "And I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within you; and I will take the stoney heart out of their flesh, and will give them a heart of flesh."* The "stoney heart" is a symbol of the sense of separateness pictured by the tower in [Key 16](16). see [85](85), [735](735), [740](740)

---

### [Kaph/Ayin](/keys/K.O) - כ ע
> Jupiter in Capricorn.

---

### [sod havog](/keys/SVD.HVVG) - סוד הווג
> The mystery of sex (technical Qabalistic term). see Mem, Tzaddi and [80](80).

---

### [sal](/keys/SL) - סל
> wicker basket; basket. Suggest the manna which is collected by the fish-hook from the waters of substance, to establish (Samekh) by the Higher Self to establish balance and harmony through action (Lamed)

> Fabre D'Olivet comments: *"סל. Every kind of movement which raises, exalts, takes away, ravishes. The arabic [word] signifies in a restricted sense, to draw to one's self. סל in a very restricted sense, a leap, a gambol; in a broad and figurative sense, the esteem or value that is put upon things. Also a heap of anything; a thing formed of may others raised one upon another, as a mound of earth, etc."*

---

### [Pud](/keys/PVD) - פוד
> Night demon of the second decanate of Leo. This decanate is ruled by Jupiter and suggest the qualities of unkindness, intolerance and boorishness, the adverse aspect of subconsciousness unguided by the Sun or Self.

---

### [Molech](/keys/MLK) - מלך
> Moloch; arch-demon corresponding (with Satan) to Kether. The God to whom first-born children of Israel were sometimes offered by followers of the cult. see [570](570).

---

### [Goap](/keys/GVAP)
> demon king of the south (Goetia) [Godwin]. Davidson adds: *"Formally an angel of the Order of Power; now fallen and in hell. Goap is one of the infernal regions 11 presidents. He is also known as Gaap and Tap... That Goap was once of the Order of Powers was proved after infinite research. reports Spence, An Encyclopedia of Occultism. According to Demonologist, Goap was Prince of the West."* [Dictionary of Angels, p. 125]

---

### [yawsahk](/keys/ISK) - יסך
> to pour, to be poured, as in [Key 17](17). In [Exodus 30:31-32](http://biblehub.com/exodus/30-31.htm) written ייסך: *"And say to the Israelites, This is holy anointing oil [symbol of the Holy Spirit], sacred to Me alone throughout your generations. It shall not be poured upon a layman's body, not shall you make any other oil like it in composition; it is Holy, and you shall hold it sacred."* see [570](570).

---

## Greek/Latin

---

### [He akademia](/greek?word=h+akademia) (Gr) - η ακαδεμια
> the Academy (Pythagorean).

---

### [deixai](/greek?word=deixai) (Gr) - δεῖξαι
"to show". [Revelation 1:1](http://biblehub.com/revelation/1-1.htm): *"The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him, **to shew** unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass"*

---

### [Arbor aurea](/latin?word=Arbor+aurea) (Lt)
> Golden tree [Secret Symbols, page 33]. Note that the 6th Path is the Sphere of Sol.

---

### [Cyprus](/latin?word=Cyprus) (Lt)
> Cyprus, the island of the Rosicrucian allegory [Fama] where brother P.A.L. is said to have "died". Cyprus is associated with copper, Venus and with creative imagination. see [870](870) (Greek), [111](111) (P.A.L)

> "According to the allegory of the Rosicrucian FAMA FRATERNITATIS, Brother C.R. began his journey to the Holy Land in company with a certain Brother P.A.L., who died at Cyprus, the reputed birthplace of Venus. The crucial work of transmutation, represented by the death of P.A.L., occurs in the Venus center, and since P.A.L. is a simple Qabalistic blind for the letter-name Aleph (אלף), what is to be understood by the death of P.A.L. at Cyprus is the dissolution of the airy essence represented by Aleph, the letter corresponding to the path uniting Kether and Chokmah on the Tree of Life.... In short, Brother P.A.L.s death at Cyprus is a reference to alchemical dissolution." [Paul Case: Great Work, Lesson 28, p. 2-3]

---

### [imaginatio](/latin?word=imaginatio) (Lt)
[imaginatio](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=imaginatio): imagination, fancy.

> *The human understanding is divided into seven powers ... The fourth is that of considering these objects in their diversity--fantasia, **imaginatio**.* {[Karl von Eckartshausen, The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary, Letter VI](cloud-upon-sanctuary)}

---

### [Dei Verbum](/latin?word=dei+verbum) (Lt)
God's Word.

> *[Dei verbum](http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_const_19651118_dei-verbum_en.html), the Second Vatican Council's Dogmatic Constitution on Divine Revelation, was promulgated by Pope Paul VI on 18 November 1965, following approval by the assembled bishops by a vote of 2,344 to 6. It is one of the principal documents of the Second Vatican Council, indeed their very foundation in the view of one of the leading Council Fathers, Bishop Christopher Butler. The phrase "Dei verbum" is Latin for "Word of God" and is taken from the first line of the document, as is customary for titles of major Catholic documents.* [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dei_verbum)

---

### English Gematria:

- [long way](/english?word=long+way) *([Fama Intro p.12](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n12))*
- [Gentlemen](/english?word=Gentlemen) *([Fama Intro p.13](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n13))*

### See Also:

- [9](9)