## 900 - Nine Hundred
> (30x30)

---

### [Final Tzaddi](/keys/Tf) - ץ
> Meaning "fishhook". To this letter is assigned the function of meditation, which is the basis of alchemical sublimation, the process whereby the wise attain to conscious union with the Life-power via the water of consciousness, which is the "mute dark mirror". Tzaddi consist of a Nun (fish) surmounted by a Yod (Hand), thus representing together the male and female principles of creation. using the fishhook Tzaddi via meditation, raises Nun, the "fish" out of the "water" of subconsciousness into the region of self-conscious awareness; it also raises the Scorpio force to awaken the higher brain centers. see [90](90), [395](395).

---

### [Sham](/keys/ShMf) - שם
> there, then.

---

### [Shem](/keys/ShMf) - שם
> location, sign, token, memorial, son of Noah. Often used in Qabalistic writing to designate the divine name IHVH. Refers to Tav and Mem at the center of the Cube of Space. [Genesis 12:8](http://biblehub.com/genesis/12-8.htm): *"From there he [Abram] went on toward the hills east of Bethel and pitched his tent, with Bethel on the west and Ai on the east. There he built an altar to the Lord and called on the name of the Lord."* Bethel means "house of God". East is the direction of illumination.

---

### [Tokh](/keys/ThKf) - תך
> Oppression.

---

### [ron](/keys/RNf) - רן
> shout, rejoicing; ringing cry. Plural in [Psalm 32:7] "You are my hiding place; you will protect me from trouble and surround me with songs (i.e. cries) of deliverance. Selah." [Nun = 700] see [250](250).

---

### [peree-etz + ha-zo-hehelth](/keys/PRI-OTz.HZChLTh) - פרי־עץ הזחלת
> the fruit of the tree plus the serpent. It is the serpent power, rightly directed through meditation, which makes man the "fruit of the tree". see [450](450).

---

### [Tarash](/keys/ThRSh) - תרש
> to be strong, hard, firm. Root to תרשיש, [Tarshish](/keys/ThRShISh), the place where Solomon got his Gold for the temple. The allusions is to a strengthening and directing of the Mars energy through mediational practices, in order to reach the "Sun" or Tiphareth. see [1210](1210).

---

### [tawshar](/keys/ThShR) - תשר
> to make a gift or to present A Mishnaic or Talmudic word. It is the gift of the profuse giver, or spirit, and its promise is the *rainbow*. see [600](600), [120](120), [186](186), [162](162). [this was found under entry [800](800)]

---

## Greek/Latin:

---

### [krouete](/greek?word=krouete) (Gr) - κρούετε
Knock. [Matthew 7:7]: *"Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you"*

It is through meditation (Final Tzaddi) that we "knock" at the door to the Kingdom of Heaven.

---

### [ptyon](/greek?word=ptuon) (Gr) - πτύον
Fan, winnowing fork. [Matthew 3:12](https://biblehub.com/matthew/3-12.htm): *"Whose fan is in his hand, and he will throughly purge his floor, and gather his wheat into the garner; but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire."*

In meditation we "winnow" our theories, separating the wheat from the chaff. *"Thou shalt separate the earth from fire, the subtle from the gross, suavely and with great ingenuity"* (The Emerald Tablet)

---

### See Also:

- [90](90)
- [9](9)
- [BibleWheel: 900](https://www.biblewheel.com//GR/GR_Database.php?SearchBy_Gematria=900)
