## 99 - Ninety-Nine
> (9x11)

---

### [Ani IHVH Hua](/keys/ANI.IHVH.HVA) - אני יהוה הוא
> *"I, myself, IHVH, He"* (mine). Ten letters, combining Macroprosopus, Microprosopus and Tetragrammaton. [Isaiah 42:8](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/42-8.htm).

> - יהוה [IHVH](/keys/IHVH) is between אני [Ani](/keys/ANI) and הוא [Hua](/keys/HVA).
> - הוא [Hua](/keys/HVA) is also called אבא [Abba](/keys/ABA), the Father;
> - אבא [Abba](/keys/ABA) ([4](4)) added to אני [Ani](/keys/ANI) ([61](61)) is אדני [Adonai](/keys/ADNI) ([65](65));
> - יהוה [IHVH](/keys/IHVH) ([26](26)), added to אדני [Adonai](/keys/ADNI) ([65](65)) is ([91](91)) or אמן, [amen](/keys/AMN).

---

### [lahatehem](/keys/LHTIHM) - להטיהם
> their secret arts, their enchantments. [Exodus 7:11](http://biblehub.com/exodus/7-11.htm): *"Then Pharaoh also called the wise men and the sorcerers: now the Magicians of Egypt, they also did in like manner with their enchantments."* see [661](661), [96](96), [94](94), [101](101).

> From להט flame, magic. see [44](44)

---

### [Nebeyai IHVH](/keys/NBIAI.IHVH) - נביאי יהוה
> The prophets of יהוה.

---

### [Yawmah Haggadol](/keys/IMA.HGDVL) - ימא הגדול
> The Great Sea. Reference to Binah, the Cosmic Mother [Daniel 7:2](http://biblehub.com/daniel/7-2.htm). see [254](254).

---

### [tit ha-yavan](/keys/TIT.HIVN) - טיט היון
> "Clay of Death." One of the 7 infernal mansions or Qlippothic Palaces -- the infernal abode of Geburah. This indicates an imbalance or misuse of Mars in action. טיט means "clay, loam" and hints at the physical body. יון means: mud, mire (the Heh is the definite article); also יון Dove, and is related to Venus and the desire nature. [Depicted in the diagram of the 4 seas]. see [71](71), [28](28); [337](337), [57](57), [911](911), [1026](1026), [566](566), [108](108), [291](291), [799](799).

> [Psalm 40:2](http://biblehub.com/psalms/40-2.htm): *"He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock..."*

> Fabre D'Olivet lists the root of this word as טי, and says it is *"analogous to the root טי, and which like it, expresses every kind of reflection as is indicated by the folowing: טיט ([28](28)) that which gushes forth, that which splashes, as mud, slime, mire, etc. Figuratively, the earth. The Arabic [word] signifies properly to bend, to give way, to be soft."* [[The Hebrew Tongue Restored, p. 358](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/358)]

> Godwin gives: [Tit ha-yaven](/keys/TIT.HIVN), Miry Clay; the 4th Hell, corresponding to Tiphreth.

---

### [khibliy lidah](/keys/ChBLI.LIDH) - חבלי לידה
> the pangs of child birth.

---

### [khupah](/keys/ChVPH) - חופה
> the Vault of Heaven; an inner chamber; wedlock, nuptial.

---

### [yedyaah](/keys/IDIOH) - ידיעה
> cognition, knowledge. The birth of the inner Christ requires direct knowledge. see [84](84), [434](434).

---


## Greek/Latin:

---

### [Akoeh](/greek?word=akoh) (Gr) - ἀκοή
> The hearing, i.e. the sense of hearing, as in [1st Corinthians 12:17](http://biblehub.com/1_corinthians/12-17.htm): *"If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where were the smelling?"*

> - Also the act of hearing as in [2 Peter 2:8](http://biblehub.com/2_peter/2-8.htm): *"For that righteous man dwelling among them, was daily tormenting his righteous soul, by seeing and hearing their lawless deeds."*
> -  In [Matthew 13:19](http://biblehub.com/matthew/13-19.htm) *"And in them is fulfilled that prophecy of Isaiah, which says; by hearing you will hear, though you may not understand; and seeing, you will see, through you may not perceive."*
> -  Also what is heard, the thing announced message, teaching, preaching; "report". In [Isaiah 53:1](http://biblehub.com/isaiah/53-1.htm) *"That the word of Isaiah the prophet, might be verified, which he said Lord, who believed our report? And the arm of the Lord, to whom was it revealed "*
> -  In [Matthew 4:24](http://biblehub.com/matthew/4-24.htm): *"And the report of him [Jesus] spread through all Syria; and they brought him all the sick, having various disorders, and arrested by severe complaints, demonics, and lunatics, and paralytics; and he healed them."*

---

### [Amen](/greek?word=amhn) (Gr) - ἀμήν
> So be it. [Ephesians 3:21](http://biblehub.com/ephesians/3-21.htm). see [91](91).

---

### [pegeh](/greek?word=phgh) (Gr) - πηγὴ
> fountain, spring (see [130](130)).

---

### [interiora](/latin?word=interiora) (Lt)
> interior. Part of the phrase in the Secret Symbols (page 17). *"Visit the interior of the earth, by rectifying you shall find the hidden stone."* see [570](570) Latin.

---

### [rectificando](/latin?word=rectificando) (Lt)
> rectifying. Rectify means of make or set right, to correct from a false state, as the will, judgement. In chemistry it is to refine or purify, especially by a process of repeated or fractional distillation. Also: to correct by calculation or adjustment. To convert alternating current in to direct current (electricity).

---

### [desiderium](/latin?word=desiderium) (Lt)
[desire](http://archives.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wordz.pl?keyword=desiderium). desire/longing/want/requirement; desire/grief/regret for dead/absent/loss; favorite, object of desire; pleasure, that desired/needed; petition, request;

> *"The will of man divides itself similarly into seven powers... The first is the capacity of desiring things apart from oneself--**desiderium**"* [[Karl von Eckartshausen, The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary, letter VI](cloud-upon-sanctuary)]

---

### English Gematria:

- [Experience](/english?word=Experience) *([Fama Intro p.14](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n14))*
- [Maximilian](/english?word=Maximilian) *([Fama Intro p.20](https://archive.org/stream/fameconfessionof00vaug#page/n20))*

---

### See Also:

- [18](18)
- [9](9)

