## [Adam](/keys/ADM) - אדם
See also [45](45)

> generic humanity, a proper name. It particularly refers to man the microcosm. The verbal symbol for the ALL. Aleph refers to Kether, the Crown, Daleth to Malkuth, the Kingdom and Mem to Binah, Understanding (Zohar). The WORD by whom all things were made, and without whom nothing was made that was made (John). The primordial man is the universal mind looking inward into itself or Chokmah (Wisdom). By its letter is hints of the combination of the Spirit of Rauch (Aleph) in the Blood, [Dam](/keys/DM), דם. Adam embraces the essential nature of the whole Tree of Life. Adam is God's image or mental self-representation. this mental image of itself in the universal mind is also the primary being underlying the whole self manifestation of the Life-power. Adam, the primordial man, is referred to M???? and corresponds to Eheyah, "I am", and to Yekhidah, the indivisible. see [21](21), [37](37). *[The Gematria Notebooks of Paul Foster Case]*

> *"אדם = Microcosmic philosopher's stone and (the elements) acting thus in concert upon each other, there result from them a harmonious whole, which composes what is called the Philosopher's stone, or the Microcosm."* [Pernety, The Great Art, p. 82]. *"אדם is the form which comprehendeth all things."* [I.R.Q. 799]. *"Adam is 'Red Earth', the earth of the sages"* [Paul Case on D.D. Bryant, VI, 6]

> Fabre D'Olivet comments:

> > *"אדם. Adam... I beg those who are reading this without partiality, to observe that Moses does not fall here into the modern error which has made of man a particular species in the animal kingdom; but only after having finished all that he wished to say concerning the elementary, the vegetable and the animal kingdom, he passes on to a kingdom distinct and higher that he names אדם, Adam. Among the savants who have searched for the etymology of the word Adam, the majority went no further than its grossest exterior, nearly all of them have seen only red cay, or simple clay, because the word אדום signifies red or reddish; because by אדםה, the earth in general, has been understood; but they failed to see that these words themselves are compounds, and that they can only be roots of words still are compound; whereas the word אדם being more simple cannot come for it.*

> > *"The Egyptian priest, authors of this mysterious name, and of a great part of those employed by Moses, have composed it with an infinite art. It presents three meanings, as do the great part of those of those which enter into the composition of the Beraeshita. The first, which is the literal meaning, has been restricted more and more, in proportion as the ideas of the Hebrews have been narrowed and materialized; so that it is doubtful whether it was understood in its purity even at the epoch of the Babylonian captivity, at least by the vulgar. The Samaritan version, the most ancient of all, is also the one which conserves best its signification. It is seen in the efforts made by the translator to find a correspondg expression. After have copied the name itself [Sumerian word], he sought a synonym of it in [Sumerian word] man; but feeling that this synonym did not render the Hebrew, he chose the [Sumerian word] word universal, infinte,...*

> > *"The name given to Adam אדם, signifies not only "homo," man, but it characterizes, as the Samaritian hand clearly seen in rendering it by [Sumerian word], unversal, that which we understand by mankind, and which we would express much better by saying kingdom of man; it is collective man, man abstractly formed of the assemblage of all men. This is the literal meaning of אדם.*

> > *"...This root is דם which carries with itself every idea of assimilation, of similitude, of homogeneity. Governed by the sign of poer and stability Aleph, it becomes the image of an immortal assimilation, of an aggeration of homofeneous and indestructive parts. Such is the etymology of the Adam, אדם, in its figurative sense.*

> > *"...the hieroglyphic meaning, which Moses allows nevertheless, to be understood in the same verse, and to wich he makes allusion, by causeing the same noun, which is singular, to govern the future plural verb יודו: quite contrary to the rule which he had followed, of making the noun of the Being of Beings אלהים which is plural, govern always the singular verb. The hieroglyphic root of the name Adam, אדם is אד, which composed of the sign of unitary, principiant power, and that of divisibility, offers the image of a relative unity, such as might be expressed, for example, by means of the simple although compound number 10. The root number being endowed with the collective sign Mem, assumes an unlimited development: that is to say, the symbolic number 10, being taken to represent the root אד, the sign Mem will develop its progressive power to infinity, as 10; 100; 1,000; etc."*

> [[Hebrew Tongue Restored p. 56-59](https://archive.org/stream/hebraictongueres00fabriala#page/56)]

> According to Gaskell, Adam is its higher aspect is *"a symbol of the divine nature of humanity-the archetypal man of the three higher planes"* and in its lower aspect, *"a symbol of the lower mind, energies from the desire plane, but receptive of impression from the higher nature. This is the fallen mind (Adam)."* [Dictionary of all Scriptures and Myths, pp. 22-23]

> Issac Myer writes: *"The Great androgyne, the Adam Illa-Ah or [Adam Qadman](/keys/ADM.QDMVN), which includes in itself all the ideas, and all the content of all the prototypes of the existence. This (first) Adam is considered as the first distinctive beginning in the finite, and therefore is the sole occupant of the Atzluthic world... in reading the first and second chapters of Genesis, a distinction was made by the learned of the Israelites, between the higher Adam, i.e. the [Adam Qadmon](/keys/ADM.QDMVN), or first paradigmic ideal man, and he inferior (terrestrial) Adam... "The third Adam is the terrestrial Adam, made of dust and placed in the Garden of Eden. This Adam was also an androgyne... it had, when first created, a glorious simulacrum or light body, and answer to the Yetziratic world... The forth Adam was the third Adam as he was after the fall, when he was clothed with skin, flesh, nerves, etc. This answers to the lower Nephesh and Guph, i.e. body, united. He has the animal power of reproduction and continuance of species, and also answers to the Assiatic world, but in him is some of the light of all the preceding (Adams)... together they form the great universal man. The Qabalah names man as the purpose of creation, and the first step in the upper Adam or celestial man."* [Qabbalah pp. 114, 401, 418]

> The Zohar [I 26A, 34B] comments: *"And the Lord God formed Man. Man here refers to Israel, whom God shaped at that time both for this world and for the future world. Further, the word Vayizer (and he formed) implies that God brought them under the aegis of his own name by shaping the two eyes like the letter Yod and the nose between like the letter Vav (p. 101)... The words let us make man may be taken to signify that God imparted to the Lower beings who came from the side of the upper world the secret of forming the divine name Adam, which embraces the upper and the lower in virtue of its three letters, Aleph, Daleth and Mem final. When these three form of the breath of life, [Nephesh Chai](/keys/NPSh.ChI). #[448](448). Thus the germ set by Jehovah Elohim in Humanity had been formed earlier; existing already in the bosom of the Elohim, it was now implanted in man, whose material body had been formed in another way. Thus something entered man from another side. Only by the endowment with Neshamah was it possible to implant in man the rudiments of the Ego nature. These old Hebrew expressions, Nephesh, Rauch, Neshamah are parallel with ours. Nephesh, as regards man, we may set beside the sentient soul; Rauch we may apply to the intellectual soul; Neshamah to the consciousness soul."* [Biblical Secrets of Creation, pp. 118-122]

> F.J. Mayers observes: *"Let us return again for a moment to the name Adam and note its hieroglyphic construction. א [Aleph] as we know denotes anything primal -- the first cause; potentiality -- God. ד [Daleth] is the sign of multiplication, abundance; final ם [Mem] is the sign of unlimited plurality. The name Adam therefore means the one becoming many. But as a spiritual being, Adam was only One. As we said in speaking of the groupsouls, a spiritual conception, a species or genus cannot, as such, multiply. It can only multiply in the number of individuals comprised in it, and this multiplication can only take place on the physical plane... We have now, the explanation of Adam being both singular and plural, him and them; and both male and female. see #[390](390). In his singular aspect he was the human principle, the soul or essence of humanity. As a spiritual unity Adam was sexless, but sex was a necessity of multiplication in the physical realm -- and in the physical realm alone... [in Genesis 2:7](http://biblehub.com/genesis/2-7.htm) what we are told of now is still a spiritual act, the formation of a spiritual being in the spiritual realm, but eternal to the essential being of God. The Adam still has no physical or material form of existence. He was formed not of the dust of the earth or of any earthy substance, but from the [Adamah](/keys/ADMH) . see #[50](50). The spiritual elements of humanity, of the qualities and attributes that constitute man a kingdom of being in himself or a link between the sub-human and divinity."* [The Unknown God, pp. 90, 121](http://www.organelle.org/as/aschap13.htm)

### See also [45](45)
