## [Nachash](/keys/NChSh) - נחש
See also [358](358)

> serpent, tempter. Kundalini. The serpent of temptation. Also disease of the eye (masculine noun), brass or copper; divination, magic, an omen. The sign Leo and tribe of Judah. The letter Teth (Key 8). The metal of Venus (copper), the planet represented by the letter Daleth and the Empress. The desire nature seems to be the tempter, but liberation and redemption are found by rightly directing its force. The serpent of temptation in the allegory of the fall. Hence there is a direct connection, with Key 15. Its feminine plural form, NChShTh means: copper brass, filthiness, harlotry; vessel made of brass or copper. It also means: pungent poisonous fluid, polished smooth, side of skin (hide). see [130](130), [601](601), [708](708), [854](854), [130](130), [780](780), [830](830), [1702](1702). *[Gematria PFC]*

> 1. "It includes Cheth, the field which is the number 8 [also ∞], signifying Mercury and the stone; Nun the fish (50); and 300, Fire or RVCh ALHIM. 358 is also the number of GShNH, shame; of IBAShILH, yaba Shiloh, Shiloh shall come, and of MShICh, messiach, or messiah. thus the serpent who tempted Eve in the fable and brought 'shame' into her consciousness is occultly related to the promised messiah, 'the anointed' = Christ. Therefore did Moses raise in the wilderness a serpent of brass on a Tau. It is to be noted also that the serpent is directly connected with brass or copper for NChSh as the proper name of the town means 'brass-mine'. Now, brass is Venus, and the serpent power certainly beguiled Eve, in the story, through Venus. This clue persist throughout all occult writings. Compare the story of C.R. whose brother P.A.L. = ALP, Aleph [111, 220], 'ox' died at Cyprus = Κύπρος, Greek for copper, or magician. It is the name of an Ammonite mentioned in [1 Samuel 11:1,2 and 12:12] who demanded of the men of Jabesh-Gilead ('dry-rocky region') that they should allow him to put out their right eyes. There is a great deal of highly important material to be found by careful study of all these references to copper, and of the Kabalistic identity of NChSh and MShICh." [Paul Case on D.D. Bryant's The Art of Alchemy, VI] see [870](870) (Greek).

> 2. "Nachash, also, is one of the Hebrew words for copper, the metal of Venus, and thou will remember that the door of the vault of Brother C.R. is attributed to Venus. Compare this with what The Perfect Way says about Satan being the keeper of the Keys of the Sanctuary ["Satan is the doorkeeper of the temple of the king: he stands in Solomon's Porch; he holds the Keys of the sanctuary; that no man may enter therein save the anointed, having the arcanum of Hermes..."] The number common to Nachash and Messiah is 358, whose digits are the forth, fifth and sixth numbers of the occult series, 1,1,2,3,5,8,13,21,34,55. In this series each number is the sum of the two preceding numbers (2 is the sum of 1, the symbol of absolute unity, and 1 the symbol of relative unity)." [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order p. 173]

> 3. "... the number 358 includes Nachash, the serpent, which came to be personified during the middle ages as the ridiculous monster pictured by Key 15. The same number also represents the messiah. There is no escape from the implication, which becomes the more emphatic when one remembers that the brazen serpent of Moses, lifted on a T-cross was understood by the early Christians to be a foreshadowing of the crucifixion of Jesus." [Paul Case: True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p.215-216]

> 4. This word appears in [Genesis 3:1](http://biblehub.com/genesis/3-1.htm) "Now the serpent was more subtle than all the wild beast that the Lord God had made. And the serpent said to the woman, 'truly has God said that you shall not eat of any tree of the Garden.'"

> Fabre D'Olivet translates: "now eager covetousness (self-conceit, envy, concupiscence) was a general ruling passion (blind principle) in the whole life of nature which had made IHVH... etc"

> He comments: *VHNChSh now-eager-covetousness... it is well know that the Hellenists and Saint Jerome, have seen here, only a snake, a serpent, properly speaking: indeed according to the former a very wise serpent, ὄφις φρόνιμοιωτατος, and according to the latter, a serpent very skillful and very cunning, "serpens callidor". This wretched interpretation appears to go back to the epoch of the captivity of Babylon and to coincide with the total loss of the Hebraic tongue: at least, it is there that the Chaldaic paraphrase has followed it. He says HVIA ChKIM a most insidious serpent. I do not know if anyone can entirely exonerate the author of the Samaritan version: for although he employs the word [Arabic word], which corresponds to the Hebrew NChSh, it is very doubtful whether he understood it whether he understood it exactly, not having know how to render the word ORVM, which follows, as I shall explain later.*

> ... *The word NChSh, as it is employed in this case, cannot mean a serpent. It is an eager covetousness, self-conceited, envious, egoistic, which indeed winds about in the heat of man and envelops it in its coils, but which has nothing to do with a serpent, other than a name sometimes given metaphorically. It is only by restricting this figurative expression more and more, that ignorant people have been able to bring it to a point of signifying only a serpent. The Hellenists have followed this crude idea; but could they have done otherwise? If, through delicacy of sentiment or respect for Moses, they had wished to rid the veil in this passage, what would have become of the garden, the tree, the rib, etc. etc.? I have already said, in the part they had taken, they had to sacrifice all to the fear of exposing the mysteries.*

> *Let us examine the word NChSh with the attention it merits, in order to prove the meaning contained in its root, not only by means of all the analogous idioms which posses it, but also by its own hieroglyphic composition.*

> *The root ChSh, which, as I have said in explaining the word ChShK, darkness, indicates always an inner covetousness, a centralized fire, which acts with a violent movement and which seeks to distend itself. The Chaldaic, derives a great many expressions from it, all of which are related to anxiety, agony, sorrow and painful passions. It is literally, a torrefaction; figuratively, an eager covetousness, in Arabic [Arabic word]. It is suffering, a grievous passion... It is finally, a turbulent agitation, in the Ethiopic (housh). This root verbalized in the Hebraic HVSh, depicts the action of being precipitated, of being carried with violence toward a thing. The analogous verbs have the same meaning in Arabic, Ethopic and Syraic. There is nothing in these which restricts us to the idea of a serpent.*

> *The hieroglyphic analysis can perhaps give us the key to this mystery. The reader will doubtless remember that I have several times set down two different roots, AR and ASh, to designate equally, the first principle, the elementary principle and the unknown principle of things. I shall now state the important differences that the Egyptian priest conceived between these two roots, and in what manner they expressed this difference.*

> *They attached to both, the idea of movement; but they considered AR as the symbol of movement proper, rectilinear; and ASh at that of relative movement circular. The hieroglyphic character which corresponds to these two movements was likewise a serpent: but a serpent sometimes straight and passing through the center of a sphere, to represent the principle AR; sometimes coiled upon itself and enveloping the circumference of this sphere, to represent the principle ASh. When these same priests wished to indicate the union of the two movements or the two principles, they depicted a serpent upright, uncoiling itself in a spiral line, or two serpents interlacing their mobile rings. It is form this last symbol that the famous caduceus of the Greeks has come.*

> *The priest were silent as to the inner nature of both these principles; they used indifferently the radicals AR or ASh to characterize the ethereal, igneous, aerial, aqueous, terreous or mineral principle; as it they had wished to make it understood that they did not believe these simple and homogenous things, but the composite ones. Nevertheless, among all these several significations, that which appeared the most frequently was that of fire. In this case, they considered the igneous principle under its different relations, sentient or intelligible, good or evil, and modified the radical word which represented it, by means of the signs. Thus, for example, the primitive AR became AVR to designate elementary fire, AVR, light, AIR intelligible brightness, etc. If the initial vowels is hardened, it takes a character more and more vehement. HR represented an exaltation, literally as well as figuratively: ChR, a burning center, OR, a passionate, disordered, blind ardor. The primate ASh was nearly the same.*

> *The movement alone still distinguished the two principles, whether, they were exalted or whether they were debased. The rectilinear movement inherent in the primitive AR, prevented the confusing of its derivatives with those of the primitive ASh, in which the gyratory movement dominated. The two radicals DR and ChSh represented alike a central fire; but in the first HR, it was a central fire form which the igneous principle radiated with violence; whereas in the second ChS, it was, on the contrary, a central fire, from which the same principle being moved in a circular movement, was concentrated more and more and destroyed itself. Such was the hieroglyphic meaning of this root which I have already examined under its idiomatic relations. This coincidence ought not to leave any doubt in the mind of the reader. Now the sign which governs it in the word NChSh, is that of passive action, individual and corporeal; so that the devouring ardor expressed by the root ChSh, becomes by means of this sign, a passive ardor, cold in its vehemence, contained, astringent and compressive. Literally, it is every hard and refractory body; everything acrid, cutting and corroding; as copper, for example, which this word signifies in a very restricted sense, figuratively, it is every sentiment, painful, intense or savage, as envy, egoism, cupidity, it is, in a word vice.*

> *This is the real signification of the word NChSh. I have been obligate to extend my proofs more than usual; but its importance demands it. It can be clearly seen that it does not signify simply a serpent. Moses, who has spoken so much of the reptilian life, in the beginning of the Beraeshith, was carefully not to employ it. The word ShRTz which he uses, is that which, in his idiom, indicates veritable a serpent. One can easily recognize here the source of the French and Latin word, and that of the Celtic sertz, which is preserved without alteration in the modern Oscan. [The Hebrew Tongue Restored, Cosmogony of Moses, p. 94-97]*

> 4. AND THE SERPENT. R. Isaac said: ‘This is the evil tempter’. R. Judah said that it means literally a serpent. They consulted R. Simeon, and he said to them: ‘Both are correct. It was Samael, and he appeared on a serpent, for the ideal form of the serpent is the Satan. We have learnt that at that moment Samael came down from heaven riding on this serpent, and all creatures saw his form and fled before him. they then entered into conversation with the woman, and the two brought death into the world. Of a surety Samael brought curses on the world through wisdom and destroyed the first tree that God had created in the world. This responsibility rested on Samael until another holy tree came, namely Jacob, who wrested the blessing from him, in order that Samael might not be blessed above and Esau below. For Jacob #[182](182) was the reproduction of Adam [45](45), and he had the same beauty as Adam. Therefore as Samael withheld blessings from the first tree so Jacob, who was such another tree as Adam, withheld blessings, both upper and lower, from Samael; and in doing so Jacob took back his own. It is written: and the serpent was subtle. This serpent is the evil tempter and the angel of death. It is because the serpent is the angel of death that it brought death to the world.'" [Soncino Zohar, Bereshith, Section 1, Page 35b](http://www.yashanet.com/studies/revstudy/text/r12_7-17.htm)

> 5. Swendenborg maintains: "By the 'serpent' is here meant the sensuous part of man in which he trusts... The sensuous things in man they (the most ancient people) called 'serpents', because as serpents live close to the earth, so sensuous things are those next the body. Hence also reasoning concerning the mysteries of faith, founded on the evidence of the senses, were called by them the 'poison of a serpent', and the reasoners themselves 'serpent'; and because such persons reason much from sensuous, that is, from visible things (such as are things terrestrial, corporeal, mundane and natural), its is said that 'the serpent was more subtle than any wild animal of the field... Among the most ancient people, who were celestial men, by the 'serpent' was signified circumspection, and also the sensuous part through which they exercised circumspection so as to be secure from injury." [Arcana Coelestia, pp.83-84, 86]

> 6. According to F.J. Mayers: "The root of the word is 'hash' or 'chash' [ChSh]. We explained that Cheth denotes 'life' seeking some outlet; some means of expressing itself; some unrestrained, instinctive impulse to activity of some kind. The Shin being the sign of 'relative' movement (relationship), relates this 'impulse' to self-expression, to the in most being of Adam. It forms the focus or central point of his being, toward which it seeks to draw everything: it denotes activity centered in 'self' and working for the "Self" the Nun prefixed to the root gives the word an application to something 'individualized'. The provision of aisha (#[300](300)) for Adam brought about a consciousness of himself as an 'intelligent' being (AISh). he realized his own 'individuality' ... 'na-hash, then, is the activity of the very basic element of human personality-'selfhood'. It does not act as a 'moral' force. It has no 'bias' either to what is morally 'good' or to what is morally 'evil'. In all sentient creatures, as we know, there is what we call the 'instinct of self preservation'. This was necessary, not only to work for the preservation of the life of each separate creature, but also for the continuation of the species. In the human kingdom, every human being is a “species” in himself, — i.e., an individual Soul. So when the “human” soul was developed, this same “instinct” continued to work, in an intensified and more individualized way. In the animal it is a quite impersonal force; in man it becomes very personal indeed. It forms as it were a vortex, like a whirlpool which draws into itself all it can grasp. It is a “passion” ever seeking satisfaction of some kind. It is the potential root of self-love, self-seeking, selfishness; a blind, unconscious force. [Ain Soph - The Unknown God](http://www.organelle.org/as/aschap24.htm)

### See also [358](358)
