## [neobed](/keys/NOBD) - נעבד
See [126](126)

> Serving, Administrative or Aiding. [32nd Path](32) of [Tav](400). It may be read as perpetual generation (Nun), the fountain of renewal (Ayin) in (Beth) Daleth.

> *"Upward on the Tree runs the Way of Return. It begins in Guph, and rises to Nephesh through the path of Tav. And this path is named נעבד, Administrative. The number of נעבד is [126](126), and it has close connection with the symbols of the R.C. For 126 is the total length (in feet) of the boundaries of the Vault described in Fama. This path of Tav is also closely related to all temple symbolism, as you have learned from previous communications. The word נעבד also calls attention to Mars in Scorpio, and Mars combined with Saturn, and these are combined with the letters of Mercury and Venus. Mars in Scorpio, Mars exalted in Capricorn, Saturn ruling Capricorn - these are Nun and Ayin. Mercury is Beth, and Venus is Daleth. Meditate on this, and find out what you have to administer in the Temple of the Body."* [Commentary Qabalistic Text 10th Communication]

> *"It is written that the 32nd Path is שכל נעבד (Saykel Naobed, Intelligence of Service or Serving), and that it is so called because it governs the motion of the 7 planets and concurs therein to Tav, the letter of this Path, to which the wise declare that the Temple of the Midst pertaineth, and that this Path is also that of Shabbathai or rest. Now the secret of this Path is in its name, נעבד, which signifieth Serving, and answereth to the number 126. Now this is the number of אלמנה, [Almanah](/keys/ALMNH), or Widow, and it is said by the Sons of the Doctrine to refer to Malkuth in her separation from Tiphareth. Thus doth the Path of Tav end in Malkuth, but its first letter is the beginning and end of Tiphareth, and its last letter is Vav, by which the wise understand Tiphareth also. For the Temple of Holiness in the Midst is in the heart of the six, and there also is the place of rest, or Shabbathai. For it was said of old that from Shabbathai came forth the other planets, and unto Shabbathai they all returned...*

> *"See now in נעבד that the first letter pertaineth to Madim, and to the perpetuation of life by generation. And that the second letter is the Fountain of Renewal in which Shabbathai ruleth and Madim hath its chief power. Then cometh the letter Beth, and the word endeth with the letter Daleth, so that you may read it thus: Perpetual Generation, the Fountain of Renewal In Daleth, for Beth and Daleth together may be read 'in Daleth.'...*

> *"Let us look first at the number 126: When the Text was written, the later development of...Magical Language, was unknown; but by the time we announced ourselves enigmatically in the Fama, it was well developed, and one of our reasons for describing the vault as we did, was that its boundaries in feet, as given in the Fama, total 126. For there are 7 lines of 5 feet at the top, 7 of 5 feet at the bottom, and 7 vertical lines of 8 feet, and this totals 126 feet. Note that 21 lines establish these boundaries, and 126 is a six-fold 21. It is then אהיה multiplied by Vav, the letter of Tiphareth to which the vault is assigned. The reference to נעבד and אלמנה may seem obscure at first; the riddle solves itself with a little meditation.*

> *"Thus to rise to the formulation of correct theory through the Path of Tav, calls for a total reorientation, or a true turning once more, that is to the Spiritual East, and in the Secret Wisdom, East is connected with Venus. As above, so below, as in great, so in small. Your personal reorientation and your personal victory, are also a work of Venus. Furthermore the dancer is androgynous as we said... See if you can think through to its meaning, and to help you in this, remember that the key stands for Shabbathai, that is, for what all astrologers mean by Saturn and more.*

> *"Again, the wreath as we said is an ellipse, that is to say, a zero sign representing אין, [ain](/keys/AIN), and thus also אני, [ani](/keys/ANI), that is I, myself, and בטן, [beten](/keys/BTN), the womb. Yet the number of the Key is [21](21), which is the value of אהיה, [Eheyeh](/keys/AHIH), the Divine name of Kether, and also the value of the name יהו, or [Yaho](/keys/IHV), with permutations of which according to the Sephir Yetzirah the Lord establishes the Cube of Space. The meaning will dawn, if it has not begun to glimmer already. The Great Work is both personal and social, but it must begin with persons. As they achieve it, as they enter the sanctuary, as they discover for themselves the true secret of Saturn, they progress stage by stage into conscious participation in the New Order. For many generations this has been going on; because you do not know how many have already achieved the Summum Bonum, it may seem to you that the social demonstration is yet far off. We trust you will not fall into this error. It is on the contrary imminent from our point of view. Do not forget that six blind men might suppose all the world to be as sightless as they. The day is now when we no longer veil our meaning with enigmas, for we have said, and you must also say, that the old order is ended."* [36th Communication] see [474](474), [61](61).

### See also: [126](126)
