LESSON TWENTY-SEVEN
The Tarot tableau for this lesson is

   6  16  17   3
  11   9   8  14
   7  13  12  10
  18   4   5  15

The constant summation is 42, indicating Key 6, the Lowers, considered as the operation of the principle symbolized by Key 2, working through that represented by Key 4. This square corresponds also to the fourth stage of spiritual unfoldment, represented by Key 18.

As you know, Key 6 represents the Disposing Intelligence corresponding to the letter Zain. Key 2 stands for the Uniting Intelligence, attributed to G-imel. Key 4 is the Tarot symbol for the Constituting Intelligence corresponding to Heh. The Book of Formation says the Uniting Intelligence is the H essence of glory." This essence is mind-stuff, symbolize-d by the robe ef the High Priestess, blue and shimmering, because it represents the "Water" of the alohomists, the Astral Fluid which solidifies in all the forms of the physical plane. Thus this lesson has to do with the moons whereby the Astral Fluid is utilized through the activity of the Constituting Intelligence, which is said to "constitute creative force in pure darkness," The Constituting Intelligence operates principally through the organs having to d* with the function of sight. This phase of the Life-power's activity is what leads to true vision.

The power of true vision is a spiritual power, whereby the Astral Fluid is condensed into visible, external forms. The sight center in the brain, when it is perfected, and when it is able to exercise its highest functions, because metaphysical light is streaming through and energizing the pineal body, is like a lens through which Astral Light, in fluidic form, is actually projected into the outer conditions of the physical plane* Read very attentively here, for this is the essential secret of true magic, or theurgy. He who sees truly is an immediate instrument of the Constituting Intelligence which actually builds the forms and conditions of the external v^orld. The mysterious power of transformation exerted by adepts, the power of performing miracles, the power to heal sick bodies, the power to, bring about changes in the constitution of physical forms, is none other than this.

To see truly is to be able to control the positive and negative currents of the Astral Light. These are the solar and lunar currents of Prana, concerning which a Hindu book says: n To those men who practice, and thus always keep the sun and moon in proper order, knowledge of the past and future becomes as easy as if they were in their hand,” In the alchemical books, also, the Great Work is said to consist in right control of the Sun and Moon. Note the implication here. The Sun and Moon are, respectively, the luminaries of day and of night, the sources of light whereby we are enabled to see. Their light is the basis of our power of vision. Thus to control the solar and lunar currents is to control our sight power. Hence the alchemical books tell us the Great Work is performed by the Sun and Moon, with the aid of Mercury.

You will remember that the Disposing Intelligence attributed to Zain is also related to the Mercurial sign G e mini, represented by Key 6 # In Tarot, Mercury is the Magician, and you have been taught that the Emperor is the same as the Magician— -that the Emperor 1 £ the Magician, after the latter f s union with the High Priestess has transformed her into the Empress, who bears his children. Thus Mercury, the planet ruling sight, according to astrology, is occultly connected with the letter Heh, although that letter corresponds also to the sign Aries, ruled by Mars*

The head and brain, and particularly the eyes *and the sight center, are the instruments of what is personified as Mercury* The force at work through these centers is the Mars energy. Thus in Key 1, we see the Magician wearing a red outer garment, and red is the color of Mars. Again, in our color scale, the tint assigned to Gemini is orange, and on the Tree of Life, tlie same color is given to Splendor, the eighth Sephirah, which is the "Sphere of Mercury*" Orange is the mixture of red, the color of Mars, and yellow, the color assigned in our scale to Mercury* All this may seem somewhat involved and technical, but it is included here for the benefit of students who have special aptitude for following up clues leading to the solution of alchemical and magical problems *. R e aders whose bent lies in other directions need only remember that the essential fact indicated by all these correspondences is the fact that the mental part of true vision is Mercurial, while the force involved is what astrology represents by Mars.

Seeing truly is as much' an act of imagination as it is a manifestation of the laws of optics. ' Our physical vision has to be supplemented by mental imagery (Key 3). The perception of true relationships is supersen«ual, the consequence of me4itation. To see truly requires the correlation of all cur sense s, and the sublimation cf their reports into a higher order of knowing (Key 17)* From superficial sense knowledge wo gain only material f«rr * structure of error, certain sooner or later to be overthrown by a sudden influx of light fr-em super conscious levels (Key 16)* The balance of conscious and subconscious activities symbolized by the Lovers cannot be maintained while the sense of separateness persists, for while we are imprisoned in that delusion the conscious and subconscious phases of our personal mentality are, so to say, in disguise* Thus the falling figures in Key 16 are shown clothed, but in Key 6 the man and the woman are nude, to show that neither hides anything from the other.

Before the Great Work is finished, it seemsto us as if we* are making various experiments;but when the operation reaches its term, weknow the personality itself has been the sub-ject of the transmutation worked by the trueSelf, from superconscious levels (Key 14). Theconscious mind is only a transmitter of lightfrom above* Thus, in the Tarot tableau givenin TAROT FUN DAMENT AL S J the Magician is placedever Strength, to show that the subconsciousmodifications come immediately from him; but atthe same time he is shown lifting his righthand, holding the wand, and pointing downwardwith his left hand, to indicate that he ismerely a transmitter cf energy drawn fromob eve, which he directs to planes below*

The power, therefore, which tames the lion in Key 8, has its origin in the superconscious* It comes from the height where stands the Hermit, and its direct effect is concerned with processes of body-building related to the zodiacal sign Virgo. The progress of ai^ human being along the Path of Return which leads ~bo adeptship, and from adeptship to mastery, is really a series of bodily transformations. It is a chemical process of purification and sublimation, which results in the weaving of a finer and subtler vehicle for the Spirit (Key 9). It is also a process which brings about the elimination of the grosser elements of the physical organism, and the fine adjustment of all the forces within it (Key 11).

Our personal unfoldment is more than personal. It is a special manifestation of universal lavra and forces, in the field of action represented by the life of a particular personality. The whole universe manifests within and through each of us (Key '10. Our lives are always utterly dependent on the cosmic lifej but until we reach a certain stage of unfoldment # we do not know this. We come to this stage, and then we become aware of our dependence, and gladly submit ourselves to the cosmic life (Key 12). This restilts in the utter dissolution of fhlse, seemingly separated personality, and this dissolution is the "mystic death" (Key 13). It is a transfer of consciousness from the vehicle to THAT which is the rider in the vehiole. It is a change from the bustle and disquiet of separateness to the still calm of the One Life. Therefore is the chariot, in Key 7, shown at rest, with the two sphinxes oouohant.

In reality, then, there is no adversary. As man progresses in understanding, he synthesizes the hosts of devils imagined by his ancestors into one Prince cf Darkness. Yet even this Enemy is a figment of man’s imagination. Just as a page of cipher mamis-oiviptsontains inevitably the clues enabling a cryptographer to decipher it, so do all the semblanoes of antagonism which the universe presents t o the uninitiated reveal bo the better instructed the truth that all things are really working together for the liberation of man*s spiritual powers (Key 15),

■ Sooner or later, every human being reaches the stage of unfoldment where the meaning of life is made known, where the significance is revealed, where the Yfay of Liberation is made plain. The Inner Voice speaks, and as we listen and obey, delusion vanishes (Key 15), '

Then we see all things as they really are* This true vision, which seems to set everything in order, is really perception of an order which is eternally present. The vision does not impose order in place of disorder, though that is what seems to happen when the results of true vision are noticod by those who, as yet, are unable to see truly. Just as the outlines of objects are not really blurred, though they seem vague to a sufferer from astigmatism, so the universal processes are never disorderly, nor ever antagonistic to human welfare* and when our vision is corrected we simply see the order which has been there all the while (Key 4),

This better seeing is the result of a definite bodily transformation. It is brought about by the sublimation of the natural b ody — by a gradual alteration in the body-chemistry and structure, which makes the physical organism a suitable vehicle for the manifestation of rates of vibratory activity higher than those expressed through the physical organism of the merely natural man (Key 18).

The fact that adeptship and mastery are consequences of profound alterations in physical ©hemistry and structure cannot be too strongly emphasized, for in these days there is a tendency to accept the error that liberation is a matter of mind alone— or, at least, a matter having to do with higher planes, to the exclusion of the physical (Key 18), The mystic death mentioned on a preceding page is a real dissolution of physical cells— an elimination of cells impregnated by the consciousness of separateness (Key 13), The elimination i s automatic, to be sure. In large measure, it is imperceptible; yet it is none the less actual. For when the animal nature is brought under ©ontrol, it ceases to be the animal nature (Key 8), The initial impulses which effect this thorough-going transformation are passed down into the organic level from the human level of subconsciousness., and they follow ohanges in our mental imagery, changes effected by acts of concentration (Key 3),

Continual practice in discrimination, continual exercise ©f intellectual power, to the end that the functions of conscious and' subconscious levels of the personal life may be rightly exercised, is required to effect these Changes, This may seem to contradict what has just been said, to the effect that the work is really performed by the Higher Self, The contradiction, however, is only apparent. In Key 6, it is the power of the angel above the man and woman which is specialized in their particular activities. The angel, therefore, is understood as being the real Actor. Nevertheless, what is below him acts also. To say the One Self does the work is by no means to absolve ourselves from the duty of effort. So long as effort seems necessary, so long it _is * necessary. The illusion of separateness is not what we are working against, but the delusion which fails to recognize the illusion as such, and fails also to understand how that illusion is necessary to the Life-power's self-expression in the universe and in the life of man (Key 6).

The real Self of every human being is none other than the Eternal Watcher, pictured in Tarot as the Hermit, But so long as one is not completely identified with that One, the illusion o f separateness persists, and this requires us to act as if our own practice and our own efforts were what bring about the ohanges through which we attain to liberation (Key 9),

Whether we know it or not, v/e are utterly dependent on the universal Life-power, Whether we know it or not, we do nothing of ourselves. Knowing this marks a definite stage of spiritual unfoldment. We ripen into it, as a fruit which is acid and poisonous in its green state ripens into sweetness and healthfulness in due season (Key 12),

With such knowledge comes a new attitude toward seeming adversity, toward the criticism of others, and especially toward the mental state of those who misjudge and calumniate us. The unripe person hates his adversaries, longs for a day when he shall bo freed from all adversities, damns those who speak ill of him, and, unless he is perfectly comfortable, questions the justice of cosmic law. He who is ripe truly loves his enemies, knows that no proverb is truer than the saying, "Sweet are the uses of adversity," pities the mental darkness of those who misunderstand and condemn him, and looks upon discomfort as a signal that he has an adjustment to make, somewhere in his personal mechanism (Key 15).

Persons attracted to Tarot and similar studies are approaching ripeness. They have had glimpses of a higher state of human existence than that which is pictured to us by our daily newspapers. Thus they have attracted the notice of those riper men and women who are ahead’ of us on the Path of Return. From those riperelder brothers and sisters of mankind comes all. such teaching as this. It is based on their own experience, an experience we may share, i£ we choose.

MEDITATIONS

FIRST DAY: Keys 3, 17, 16, 6. The harvest of wisdom ripens in the field of my subconsciousness. Day by day my vision of truth becomes clearer. I welcome the overthrow of my former errors. TEE OVERSHADOWING PRESENCE DISPOSES ME TO FAITHFULNESS.

SECOND DAY: Keys 14, 8, 9, 11. In this day f s experiences the One Life refines and purifies my personality. I am made whole by the Universal Medicine. The One Will forms my flesh and blood, according to its perfect pattern. THE LAW OF LIBERTY’ SETS ME FREE.

THIRD DAY: Keys 10, 12, 13, 7. ' The Life-power already is all that I want it to be. Its power is the immovable basis of all my personal achievement. That power dissolves everything in my personality that seems to obstruct its free self-expression. I AM BEING FASHIONED INTO A PERFECT VEHICLE FOR THE VICTORIOUS ONE.

FOURTH DAY: Keys 15, 5, 4, 18. I fear no evil. For as I listen and obey the instruction of the Inner Voice, delusion vanishes. I see the heavenly order wherever I look. I AM BEING TRANSFORMED INTO THE LIKENESS OF THE ONE SELF, THAT SELF WHICH SEES NAUGHT BUT THE PERFECTION OF ITS DIVINE MANIFESTATION.

FIFTH DAY: Keys 18, 13, 8, 3. Today marks another stage of progress along the Path of Return. Today marks the utter dissolution of some error «f thepast. Today is a more perfect expression of the inexhaustible strength of the One Life. TODAY BRINGS ME NEARER THE GOAL OF TRUE WISDOM.

SIXTH DAY: Keys 6, 9, 12, 15. This day I manifest harmony, I look upward toward the heights. I rest secure in the knowledge of my union with the Life-power, I RENEW MY STRENGTH.
