 
J\ £ l 


I V 


l 

r~ 


\TJOM 


jttt HIDDEN Fo^Cfc • 

-See mside bdot ^ 0 / -|_ I 6H T - C l? fc/\l/0 hj 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 8 
TOE HIDDEN FORCE 


YOU HAVE now completed your pre- 
liminary study of Tarot. From here 
on, you will learn how to use the 
Tarot Keys for the purpose of real- 
izing your heart's desire. 

When we say this, we assume that 
your heart * s . desire involves no con- 
flict with the rights and happiness of 
others. Surely you have the good 
sense to know that nothing in true 
occultism will enable you to gain 
any tricky advantage over another 
human being. Your previous studies 
have taught you the folly of expect- 
ing something for nothing. Remember 
always that it is impossible to 
employ the higher forces for any but 
right ends. 

All that a black magician ever ac- 
complishes is his own downfall, his 
own mental and physical deteriora- 
tion. Selfish personal motives are 
themselves enough to debar him who 
harbors them from making any use of 
subtle spiritual energy. Selfishness 
clouds the mind so that it cannot 
perceive the true import of the 
instruction. 

However clear the teaching, he who 
would misuse it is sure to misunder- 

- 1 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 8 


stand it. Ignorance cannot employ 
powers reserved for the expression 
of wisdom. Study and practice as 
much as he may, he who intends to 
use Ageless Wisdom to further his 
own interests at the e. v pente of 
another will meet with nothing but 
disappointment. 

Consider well your motives, there- 
fore, and make up your mind what 
you want to be, and what you want 
to do, more than anything else. 
See yourself engaged in the kinds of 
action appropriate to the expression 
of your heart's desire. Make your 
mental images clear and definite. 
You cannot be too specific. 

Vivid imagery like this will, 
naturally, include all necessary de- 
tails as to the possession of what- 
ever means or instrumentalities you 
may need, in order to carry out your 
action. Set your mental stage with 
scenery appropriate to the best pos- 
sible realization of your desire. 
Yet remember that to see yourself 
having what you now suppose you need 
is far less important than to see 
yourself doing what you want to do. 

Pay no attention whatever to any 
who would persuade you that you need 
only hold fast to the essential idea 
of your main purpose. This may 
sound well, but it won't work. Cer- 
tainly you must have a definite idea, 

- 2 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION § 

a central motive. This is indis- 
pensable, but if you are to experi- 
ence anything like full realization, 
the idea must be clothed with spe- 
cific mental imagery. 

We shall assume, then, that you 
know what you want, and that you are 
ready to devote yourself whole- 
heartedly to the realization of your 
aim. This being understood, fix 
firmly in mind the fundamental prin- 
ciple of this whole course of 
instruction . 

Realization is a state of con- 
sciousness: it is the illumined 
perception of things as they are, 
supph.ntirig the deluded acceptance 
of things as they look . 

The twenty-two Tarot Keys were 
designed to bring about this change 
of consciousness. They were invent- 
ed by adepts in realization. They 
represent the fundamental states of 
human consciousness, as expressed in 
the thought of illuminated men and 
women. He who impresses their sym- 
bols deeply upon his brain cells 
plants within himself the seeds of 
illumined realization. For him are 
confirmed the words of Eliphas Levi: 

‘‘The Tarot is a book which is the 
sum of all the sciences, which can 
resolve all problems by its infinite 
combinations, which speaks by evok- 
- 3 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 8 

in g thought, and is the inspirer and 
regulator of all possible concep- 
tions* 9 9 

The first page of this magical book 
pictures the hidden force which is 
at work in the process of realiza- 
tion* Your previous studies have 
given you some idea of the meaning 
of Key 0. The degree of your suc- 
cess in doing what you want to do 
will be measured strictly by your 
u nde r s t and ing of its deeper sig- 
nificance. It sums up what the 
wisest of men have learned about the 
One Energy behind all appearances. 
It tells you what they know. It 
also tells you what they do not 
know. 

The force which makes possible the 
realization of your heart's desire 
is occult because it is hidden from 
the ignorant. Among the oldest 
books in the world are those written 
by men who understood and used it. 
In this dawn of a New Age, a greater 
number of persons are ready to as- 
similate and apply this ancient 
knowledge; but even today, prepared 
minds are in the minority. Yet from 
that minority are chosen the real, 
though hidden, masters of the world. 

No wise man pretends to know the 
innermost nature of this hidden 
force. None pretends to define it. 


- 4 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 8 


Lao-tze says of it: 1 * The TAO whieh 
is the subject of discussion is not 
the true Tao; the quality which can 
be named is not its true attri- 
bute. ' * 

Occult names for it are merely 
convenient designations, identifying 
labels. We do not know just what it 
is, any more than we know just what 
electricity is, and nobody needs to 
know . The wise, therefore, avoid 
all useless quest in this direction. 

They recognize, however, that 
since the hidden force is the One 
Thing which is the source of all 
else, it cannot possibly be identi- 
fied with any of the things which 
proceed from it. Thus they often 
designate it by terms for which the 
English equivalent is No-Thing. 

Of this No-Thing the zero sign is 
a symbol. Zero also signifies free- 
dom from the limitations called 
''time'' and ''space.'' Thus the 
Fool shows that the hidden force is 
always in the position suggested by 
the picture. It is always at the 
height of its power, yet there is 
always something higher beyond. It 
has limitless possibilities for finer 
and better types of manifestation. 
Let this realization sink deep into 
your mind: Neither time nor space 
can bind the hidden force . It is 


- 5 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 8 


always per feet ly free , nor can any 
condition limit its free self- 
express ion . 

Being boundless, it is necessarily 
present . ,4 A11 the power that ever 
was or will be is here now. M Its 
energy, manifested as the light of 
stars, maintains itself without the 
slightest loss through millions of 
light-years, and propagates itself 
without deviation through reaches of 
space whose immensity staggers our 
imaginations. Where anything is, it 
is; and where nothing seems to be, 
there it is also. 

You yourself are completely filled 
with the real presence of the hidden 
force. All that you are is an' as- 
semblage of manifold veils that hide 
it, and, by hiding it, make it ‘ ‘oc- 
cult. * * Your body is made of it. 
It is the substance of your food and 
drink, of the air you breathe, of 
the earth beneath your feet, of all 
your possessions. This is the One 
Reality, manifest in all the things 
you know, and dwelling in everything 
outside your present rai>ge of knowl- 
edge, also. 

The universe is a great ocean of 
vibrating electro-magnetic energy. 
Psychologis t s assure us that this 
energy appears as ‘‘objects’ 4 when 
its vibrations are d i s t ingu i shed 
within relatively narrow fields per- 

- 6 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 8 


ceptible to our senses. If our 
sense organs should change a little, 
we should find ourselves in a new 
world, full of things unknown to us 
now. These things actually exist, 
even now, though we can form no 
clear idea of what they are like. 

Matter, as a separate entity, does 
not exist. Sir William Ostwald 
calls the noun ‘ 'matter' 1 a mere 
generalization invented by man, to 
account for his various experiences 
of an energy which presents itself 
in physical forms. Everything in 
the physical plane emerges from a 
wholly invisible and immaterial 
source which is usually termed elec- 
tro-magnetic energy. The primal 
physical form of this energy is 
light, or radiation, and everything 
else is made of this radiation. 
This is the substance of what is now 
taught by such leaders of modern 
science as Eddington, Jeans and Mil- 
likan. 

What they advance in their latest 
books has a familiar ring to stu- 
dents versed in the lore of Ageless 
Wisdom. * 4 Light is the veil of the 
Boundless, and all things are from 
that Light, * * says the Inner School 
of Western occultism that invented 
Tarot. 4 'That which hath been made 
was life in the Creative Thought, 
and the life was the light , 9 * is the 

- 7 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 8 


declaration at the beginning of the 
Gospel according to St. John: 

This living light is often given a 
name which means 4 4 Li f e- Bre at h . 9 * 
The term is no figure of speech. Our 
atmosphere is really made of light. 
The atoms of its gases are built up 
of electrons, themselves points of 
radiant energy. Every electron is a 
point at which lines of magnetic 
force converge. Their convergence 
sets up whirling motion at the elec- 
tronic point. This whirling motion 
is represented by the ten yellow 
wheels on the Fool's dress„ 

In proportion to their size, elec- 
trons are as far apart as are the 
stars. Thus the active units of 
energy in the universe, the elec- 
trons, are separated by relatively 
vast expanses of apparently empty 
space. 

Dwell on this idea for awhile. 
It will help you overcome one great 
obstacle to realization, the notion 
that because the things of the phys- 
ical plane seem hard and solid to 
our senses they offer resistance to 
the passage of the hidden force. 
Think of radio waves, bringing music 
from distant stations into your 
home, through solid walls. Think of 
cosmic rays, penetrating many feet 
of ''solid'* lead. There are finer 
vibrations than these, to the action 


- 8 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 8 


of which nothing physical can oppose 
a barrier. As we read in the Em- 
erald Tablet of Hermes: 4 ‘This is 
the strong force of all forces, 
overcoming every subtle and pene- 
trating every solid thing. * * 

Electrons, we have said, are sep- 
arated from one another by vast 
expanses of apparently empty space. 
It is not really empty. Space is 
filled with the Life-Breath. It is 
everywhere, between things as well 
as in them. They may be small as 
electrons or big as Betelgeuze, but 
things are limited areas or fields, 
wherein the occult force takes on 
physical form. All things are waves 
in an ocean of light. 

The earth is a wheel in a machine 
driven by solar force. The move- 
ments of matter on its surface, 
including your personal actions, are 
transformations of the sun's radi- 
ance. Everything pictured in Key 0 


i s 

an 

im 

age of 

some 

form 

o 

f 

solar 

en 

ergy 

. 

Even 

the 

e a 

r th 

i t 

s e 

If is 

ma 

de o 

f 

elect rons 

wh 

ich 

we 

re 

once 

pa 

rt o 

f 

the s u 

n 1 s 

ma 

ss • 





The 

me 

asured 

be 

at 

of w 

a v 

es 

upon 


the shore, the slow, majestic prog- 
ress of the Amazon, sweeping down to 
the sea, the song of a mountain rill 
running to meet its mates and join 
its waters with theirs, the bubbling 
of hillside springs, the fall of 

- 9 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 8 

every raindrop* -these are the watery 
vestures of solar light and heat. 

The gale, driving storm-clouds 
across the sky, the breeze stirring 
the curtain, the wild tornado cut- 
ting a swathe of death, the steady 
trade winds carrying proud ships on 
peaceful errands of commerce- * these 
are phases of the influence of sun- 
light on our atmosphere. Every 
breath drawn by living creature, 
every transformation of that breath 
into sound, expresses the same pow- 
er. Every prayer and every curse, 
every word of wisdom and every ut- 
terance of folly, is made possible 
by sunshine. The shrill call of 
bugles sounding the attack, the 
solemn music echoing beneath cathe- 
dral arches--these are the sun- 
light's garments of air. 

Every fire that burns is a flame 
lit by the sun. The history of 
human culture is the story of man's 
mastery of fire. Almost everything 
we own has passed through fire, or 
has been fashioned by machines driv- 
en by fire. The energy of fuel is 
imprisoned sunlight. And what more 

wonderful than the slow fire in our 
bodies, lit before our birth, which, 
while it burns, is life itself? 
Mastery of this vital flame is one of 
the greatest occult secrets to be 
learned from your present studies. 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 8 


This fire takes form as thought, 
through the functions of your brain. 
Your brain itself is made of light, 
like everything else. It changes 
sunlight into mental imagery. 

Thought at your end, the express- 
sing end, of the cosmic play of 
light vibration, implies a mental 
quality within the source of these 
waves of living light. The hidden 
force is life force and mind force, 
as well as the root of all physical 
energies. Thus the Wisdom of Israel 
ascribes Fiery Intelligence to the 
letter corresponding to Key @. 

During this week, memorize the 
f ol lowing: 

The character Aleph, is also 
the Hebrew number 1. In Roman let- 
ters it is transcribed as A. 

The letter-name (ALPL, Aleph, 
means Ox or Bull. Its numeral value 
is 111. 

The letter Aleph stanas for nil 
(RVCh), Ruach, the Life-Breath, and 
for the element of air. 

It is the sign of the Fiery Intel - 
l igence . 

To it is attributed the planet 
Uranus . 

It is a symbol for s up e r c on- 
sc ious nes s . 


-ii- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 8 


Whenever you are beset by appear- 
ances of limitation, call up before 
your mind's eye the picture of the 
Fool. Absorb its message of abso- 
lute freedom. Remember, this is a 
pictorial suggestion, formulated by 
adepts. Your subconsciousness will 
accept and act upon it. It is a 
treatment for realization, carefully 
worked out by Those Who Know. 

It is also a means for mental and 
spiritual contact with members of 
the Inner School, virtuosi in the 
art of living, who have completed 
the work you are now beginning. 
Make it, then, an integral part of 
your flesh and blood by looking at it 
every day, until every detail of the 
design is imprinted on your brain. 


^0 


a*r>T~j^4%*^L> ^ JU-<^&J7 rt> . 

v^-4 -JU^CjASfc ^v„ S%Juj> ^AJlsrv<-4*J¥ ji&y**ces<*£ 
^*VMS J*j> ^t/ ^xri^c«-tJHfe> 

^*tff \ 

< z^^S<*6fsZ'<sH. — |t«^ - ^yi^^iA/suc^) 


£^Jl^~ -^> ^fylx(_ /TA<a£ id) SZ^Ij rfbnX^*JeJj(ljLJ»As y l>u<4^ 
*M- schsi^yo CU^jZ^v 22 ^ £Z#Jf “ 

(l^X, <£Jl^ 


f ' 1^ 

■ $y . &■■ Mj- W ^ ^ hU-t<_ 



THE. T ROE MAG IG 
r(f£- £M tieALDk TABLET 


rn 

The Gr't*,+ Pyramid 

As4 r<rl Ugf,+ is Padsamce of 5 OH 

‘OS^C CvOS£ 



c 6 xne — p/t(»& 


m 



TAROT INTERPRETATION 9 
THE TRUE MAGIC 

THE EMERALD Tablet of Hermes, quot- 
ed in Lesson 8, is one of the great 
classics of Ageless Wisdom. It is 
ascribed to Hermes Trismegistus f the 
Egyptian Master reputed to be the 
founder of alchemy and magic. 

Who actually wrote this master- 
piece of practical occultism we do 
not know. The oldest versions which 
have come to light are in Latin, 
though there may have been earlier 
ones in Greek. Scholars generally 
are agreed that, in its present 
form, the text belongs to the early 
centuries of the Christian Era, not 
to the literature of ancient Egypt. 

Two thousand years ago, authors of 
occult treatises did not put their 
own names to what they wrote. Be- 
lieving themselves to be inspired by 
gods, or by Masters of Wisdom, they 
would say, ‘‘This is a work of Her- 
mes , 9 9 and so give honor to the 
source of their illumination. In 
this practice there was no taint of 
deception, nor any intent to invest 
a book with the authority of a great 
name. The modest geniuses of that 
day, free from personal vanity, 
sought only to indicate their sense 

- 1 - 


TARCT INTERPRETATION 9 


of indebtedness to the higher powers 
whence their knowledge was derived . 

Various traditions concerning The 
Emerald Tablet have come down to us. 
One says the thirteen sentences of 
this wonderful treatise were engrav- 
ed by Hermes Trismegis tus , with a 
stylus of diamond, on a single large 
emerald. At his death, the emerald 
was hidden in his tomb in the Great 
Pyramid, where it was discovered by 
Alexander the Great, centuries lat- 
er, and so given to the world. 

This is obvious allegory. Emerald 
is the stone of Venus. Hermes is 
Mercury, the personification of human 
intellect. The implement used for 
engraving the emerald is made of 
diamond, a stone sacred to the sun. 
Thus the allegory intimates that the 
substance of this classic was in- 
scribed on the subconsciousness of 
the human race (Venus, Key 3), as a 
result of man’s careful observation 
of the laws of nature (Mercury, Key 
1), exercised in acts of concentra- 
tion whereby the solar force was 
made sharp, like an engraver’s tool. 

The Great Pyramid is 4 ‘ the tomb of 
Hermes’’ because its wonderful pro- 
portions sum up the whole body of 
science known to the human race in 
prehistoric times. The ‘‘death of 
Hermes’’ refers to the temporary 

- 2 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 9 

loss of this ancient knowledge, or 
"Master’s Word,’’ during a period 
comparable to the Dark Ages which 
followed the destruction of Rome by 
Huns and Vandals. 

Alexander the Great is not the 
Macedonian, but symbolizes the 
school of esoteric philosophy which 
flourished at Alexandria. Members of 
this occult brotherhood recovered 
the secrets of the Great Pyramid, 
and so ‘‘raised the body of the 
Grand Master Hermes,’* by bringing 
once more to light the hidden Her- 
metic Wisdom. Thus were revived the 
great truths which are summarized in 
The Emerald Tablet . 

This priceless document, says Eli- 
phas Levi, contains ail magic in a 
single page. Its text, translated 
from an early Latin version, is al- 
ready in your hands, for it was 
printed on the Tarot tableau you re- 
ceived with INTRODUCTION TO TAROT.. 

It contains thirteen sentences in 
all. Five are in the first paragraph 
and eight in the second. Five, the 
proportional height of the Great 
Pyramid, if its base line be taken 
as eight. Five the number of adap- 
tation, of the magical pentagram, 
and special number of Man. Eight, 
the number of rhythm, the number of 
strength, the number of mastery. 
Five and eight, the determining num- 

-3- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 9 


bers of that great magical penta c i e> 
the Vault of Brother C. R. , Founder 
of the Rosicrucian Order. Each side 
of this vault was a rectangle, five 
feet wide and eight feet high. As 
you proceed in your work of realiz- 
ing your heart’s desire, you will 
learn that these two numbers, to- 
gether with their sum, 13, and their 
difference, 3, are keys to great se- 
crets of occultism. 

The final sentence of The Emerald 
Tablet makes clear the nature of the 
Great Work. 4 1 I have completed what 
I have to tell concerning the Opera- 
tion of the Sun.’’ For us on earth, 
the various transformations of the 
radiant energy of the sun are active 
agencies in the process of adapta- 
tion whereby the illumined percep- 
tion of things as they are is made 
to supplant the deluded acceptance 
of the outward appearances which 
surround us. 

Therefore is the sun placed high 
in the heavens behind the Fool, and 
the force the Magician draws from 
above and directs upon the garden 
below him is that same solar ener- 
gy. If you will compare Key 0 with 
Keys 10 and 21, you will see that 
the sun in Key 0 occupies the same 
position which, in Keys 10 and 21, 
is given to the eagle’s head. The 
eagle is a symbol of Scorpio, the 

- 4 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 9 

sign which governs the reproductive 
forces of the human organism. 

This sign, corresponding to Key 
13, is said to rule the eighth house 
of the horoscope, the house of 
death, but also the house of inheri- 
tance, and of practical occultism. 
The intimation here is that behind 
the grisly appearance of death, as 
it looks to the unenlightened, there 
is a power which is the secret force 
in the Great Work. This is the As- 
tral Light of Eliphas Levi, who says 
this great magical agent is the 
force which man apparently multi- 
plies in the reproduction of his 
s pec ies . 

Astral Light means ‘‘light of 
stars , * * and since we know that 
every star is a sun, we should not 
suppose that this name for the One 
Energy designates a force other than 
the solar radiance. When Levi said, 
in 1859, that the Astral Light is 
diffused throughout infinity, that it 
is the substance of heaven and 
earth, that it is the First Matter 
of the Great Work, scientists of his 
day laughed at him. Their grand- 
children now put forward precisely 
the same doctrine, but give no cred- 
it to the French occultist who was 
enabled by his Tarot studies to 
reach a conclusion exactly the same 
as theirs, ninety years ago. 

-5- 


TAPCT INTERFRETAT ICN 9 


Eliphas Levi said also that exo- 
teric scientists would, sooner or 
later, confirm his doctrine, and that 
their discovery of Astral Light 
would effect a complete revolution of 
physics and chemistry. This has now 
come to pass, and we are well on our 
way to the fulfilment of the French 
adept's other proph ecy- - tha t this 
revolution in scientific thought 
would lead to a revival of the 
transcendent magic of the Chaldeans. 

The uplifted wand in the Magi- 
cian's right hand points to that 
corner of Key 1 which, in Keys 10 
and 21, is occupied by the head of a 
man. This man is a symbol for the 
sign Aquarius. The force the Magi- 
cian draws down from superconscious 
levels is conditioned by his clear 
perception of the true nature and 
possibilities of man. In this, the 
dawning Aquarian Age, we are begin- 
ning to realize that every human 
being is an embodiment, here and 
now, of the power which produces and 
governs the hniverse. 

In astrology, Aquarius rules the 
eleventh house of the horoscope, the 
house of friends, and the house of 
hopes, desires and aspirations. As 
we begin to understand that man is 
truly * 4 but little lower than God,'' 
we shall see that our hopes rest on 
a firm foundation* As we s^e, also, 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 9 

that the One Thing is embodied in 
every human being, we shall realize 
that its perfect expression on earth 
must needs result in an era of uni- 
versal friendship and brotherhood. 
This will supplant the pitifully 
inadequate 4 4 ci vi 1 izat ion' ' of the 
Piscean Age, with its fierce compe- 
titions, its fear-born wars, and its 
follies of racial and national dis- 
crimination and hatred. 

Thus, in the garden of the Magi- 
cian, grow the lilies of right 
knowledge. A cross-section of their 
flowers will show a six-pointed star, 
or Shield of David. Now, the name 
David means 4 4 love, 44 or 4 4 the be- 
loved. 1 9 Thus the Shield of David 
signifies 4 4 the protection of love . 4 9 

Lilies are also symbols of sci- 
ence, and of the great cosmic ex- 
pressions of the Life-power, because 
the six-pointed star is connected 
also with the circle of the signs of 
the zodiac. The Magician cultivates 
lilies because right use of the con- 
sciousness he represents will enable 
us to perceive that, beneath all the 
superficial conflicts of forces pre- 
sented to us by sensation, there is 
actually at work a hidden law of 
relationship and order, which can he 
no better designated than by calling 
it the Law of Love. To know the 
truth is to be free, because that 

-7- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 9 
knowledge shows us, beyond peradven- 


t 

ure , 

tha 

t all the 

forces of c 

rea- 

t 

ion 

are 

working w 

ith every 

t rue 

1 

over 

o f 

humanity. 




S id< 

2 by 

side with 

the lilies 

grow 

r 

ed roses. 

They are 

symbols of 

love 

b 

ec au 

se they are the flowers of 

Ve- 

n 

us . 

Yet 

are they 

sacred als 

o to 

I 

acch 

us , 

the centra 

il figure of 

the 


Dionysian Mysteries, and they are 
likewise dedicated to the god of 
silence, Harpocrates, the younger 
Horus. Desire, love, secrecy, beau- 
ty and silence are represented by 
the symbol of the rose. Further- 
more, a cross-section of its flower 
shows a five-pointed star, the magi- 
cal pentagram, symbol of man. Thus 
the roses in Key 1 stand for human 
love, in contrast to the lilies, 
which may be taken as types of the 
great principle of Divine Love which 
pervades the scheme of cosmic law. 

In other forms of symbolism, too, 
the number 6 stands for universal 
love, and the number 5 for its human 
expressions. This, indeed, is the 
true significance of the cross of six 
squares (pattern of the cube) to 
which is affixed a five-petalled rose. 
This is believed by many to be the 
true and ancient form of the Rosy 
Cross . 

When human desire and affections are 
perfectly related to the cosmic pat- 

- 8 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 9 


tern, when man loves as God loves, 
then man's life is the perfect ex- 
pression of universal laws. Every 
detail of his day's experience then 
becomes a conscious expression of 
the Divine Working, the perfect 
Operation of the Heavenly Sun, This 
is the true magic* 

The true magic aims at actual 
expression within the limits of the 
physical plane . Remember what was 
said in Lesson 8. The physical 
plane is that field of the Life-pow- 
er's activity which is within range 
of the human senses. 

These senses are symbolized by the 
number of roses in the garden--five . 
They are, moreover, man y-pe ta lied , 
to indicate cultivation and develop- 
ment. They also represent man's 
desire nature. 

The true magic brings the irre- 
sistible energy of the Astral Light 
to bear upon the cultivation of 
man's desire nature. Cultivation 
implies improvement, deve lopmen t , 
adaptation. As we perfect and puri- 
fy our desires, working silently and 
secretly with them to make them ever 
more true and beautiful, we come 
nearer and nearer to the definite, 
external manifestation of the truth 
and beauty of the One Reality. 

Ageless Wisdom does not offer you a 
way of escape from this world into 


.o 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 9 


some other. It puts in your hands 
the means of witnessing the trans- 
mutation and transformation of this 
world. As your vision clears, as you 
become more and more definitely aware 
of the significance of your life, you 
will actually see the true world 
which is hidden from the majority of 
mankind by clouds of ignorance. 

You will find yourself in a differ- 
ent world, it is true; and wherever 
you are, that new world will be. 
Yet it will be made of the same four 
elements symbolized on the Magi- 
cian's table by the wand, the cup, 
the sword and the pentacle. It will 
be a physical world, a world of 
things and creatures, a world swept 
by clean, invigorating winds, and 
lighted by the sun and moon and 
stars, its streams and lakes and 
oceans sweet and pure, its very sub- 
stance transmuted by the power of 
your realization. 

The Emerald Tablet tells us plain- 
ly that the One Thing's power is 
integrating, if it be turned into 
earth. So, too, in the Apocalypse, 
the Heavenly Jerusalem, a wonderful 
symbol of perfected human conscious- 
ness, comes down from heaven to 
earth. All over the world men have 
been praying, for generations, 4 'Thy 
kingdom come.'' In this New Age, 
many shall see this come to pass. 

- 10 - 






TAROT INTERPRETATION 10 
THE BUILDER'S VISION 


ON THE Fool's garments are ten 
wheels, each having eight spokes. 
The same arrangement appears in the 
center of the wheel on Key 10, on 
the stars of Key 17, and is the bas- 
is of the disposition of the sun's 
rays on Key 19. This arrangement of 
four lines so as to form eight an- 
gles of 45 degrees is an important 
clue to right use of Tarot. 

If we imagine such a double cross 
as being drawn on a table, and then 
place eight Tarot Keys at the ex- 
tremities of the lines, and a ninth 
Key at the center, we shall form a 
combination of symbols which has 
power to bring out meanings of the 
Keys which would not be so evident, 
were the pictures to be considered 
separately. 

When we do this, we do not select 
our Keys haphazard. A definite math- 
ematical principle is involved, so 
that every arrangement of nine pic- 
tures expresses a certain numerical 
order. The total number of such 
combinations is 112. At the end of 
this course, you will be given a 
table showing them all. Until then, 
you will work with a single group of 
nine Keys in each lesson. 

- 1 - 


O- 3= 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 10 

Twenty-two combinations have been 
chosen for your preliminary studies. 
They have been selected with an eye 
to the underlying intention of this 
course of lessons. 

The main purpose of TAROT INTER- 
PRETATION is to enable you to exper- 
ience that transforming change of 
consciousness which will awaken you 
to a realization of things as they 
are. Thus we have selected for your 
study and practice those groups of 
Keys which are best adapted to bring 
about this result. 

We shall begin with this combina- 
t ion : 

0 12 

3 4 5 

6 7 8 

You will see that lines drawn 
through the central number, 4, from 
0 to 8, 1 to 7, 2 to 6 and 3 to 5 
will make the double cross mentioned 
in the first paragraph of this les- 
son. Thus the numbers of the Keys 
at the ends of the lines will always 
add to 8, and the central Key, 4, 
ill be the mean arithmetical term 
etween the members of each comple- 
mentary pair. 

From a consideration of this lit- 
tle tableau it therefore becomes 
evident that the Emperor represents 
the agency through which the hidden 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 10 


force symbolized by the Fool is man- 
ifested as the control of the animal 
nature typified by Strength. He 
stands also for the means whereby 
the self-consciousness represented 
by the Magician is brought to the 
state of perfect mastery pictured by 
the Chariot. 

He is likewise a symbol of that 
function of human life whereby mem- 
ory is utilized to establish the 
balance of consciousness and sub- 
consciousness. This is one of the 
indications of 4, considered as the 
mean term between 2 and 6, the num- 
bers of the High Priestess and the 
Lovers . 

Finally, we may think of the Em- 
peror as being the agency whereby 
the creative imagination represented 
by the Empress takes form as the 
intuitive perception of truth sym- 
bolized by the Hierophant. 

You have already learned that 
Sight is the function typified by the 
Emperor. This applies to mental as 
well as to physical vision. It is 
associated with Constituting Intel- 
ligence, because Ageless Wisdom 
teaches us that the power which 
makes, frames and composes the uni- 
verse, and regulates all its activ- 
ities, is a power of the One Iden- 
tity, analogous to vision. The 
Life-power sees the universe into 

- 3 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 10 


existence. Its vision is perfect, 
and when we see as it sees, we our- 
selves behold a perfect creation. 

Nor is this merely a metaphysical 
perception. He who, here on earth, 
sees eye to eye with the Creative 
Mind, shares that Mind's power to 
control the forces of nature as they 
manifest themselves on the physical 
plane. This is the secret of the 
works of power which characterize 
the lives of seers and sages. 

Perfect mental vision is perfect 
reason. The brain of man is an 
instrument perfected by the Life- 
power for the expression of that 
vision. Thus the sign Aries, gov- 
erning the head of man, is associ- 
ated with the Emperor. Through the 
clear vision formulated in man's 
brain, the hidden force symbolized 
by the Fool is transferred to the 
region occultly termed the heart, 
ruled by Leo, the sign corresponding 
to Key 8. 

To the degree that order and right 
measurement (4) are established, to 
that degree will the limitless ener- 
gy of the Life-power (0) be express- 
ed in the perfect rhythm of all the 
subconscious activities of personal 
life. When such rhythms are estab- 
lished, the result is mastery, 
by Key 8. 


- 4 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 10 


Right watchfulness, or concentra- 
tion, is pictured by Key 1. This is 
indispensable to personal exercise 
of true vi si orio The follies of the 
Scholastic ora demonstrate how bar- 
ren reason can be, unless it be fed 
by actual experience. To see, we 
must look. No clear mental vision 
can be arrived at by those who con- 
tent themselves with superficial 
observation. The characters in- 
scribed on the Book of Nature are 
plain enough, but we must learn to 
read them before we can understand 
what they have to say. 

Thus, when we consider the Emperor 
as being the connecting link between 
the Magician and the Chariot, we are 
reminded that vivid awareness of 
what is actually going on, moment by 
moment, is a prime characteristic of 
all masters of life. 

This is what fills their speech and 
writing with vivid imagery. They 
see the perfect law at work in the 
most familiar things, They see it 
here and now. Thus they teach by 
means of parables, for they know 
that the meaning of existence is to 
be found in the events of every day, 
that the great secrets are hidden in 
plain sight, that the laws of life 
are exemplified continually in the 
affairs of men. 


- 5 - 




TARCT INTERPRETATION 10 


When we see this as they see it, 
when we share their vision, we per- 
ceive that this moment is the moment 
of peace and victory pictured by the 
Chariot. We see that in very truth 
NOW is the acceptable time. Then it 
will be evident to us that the words 
of The Pattern are true when it 
says, ‘‘Mine is the victorious 
life. ” 

Memory also enters into the Divine 
Wisdom. The Life-power's record of 
past experiences is complete. Noth- 
ing escapes it, and through the 
Uniting Intelligence symbolized by 
Key 2, every personal center of the 
Life-power is indissolubly linked to 
the Mind which never forgets. Our 
personal memories are but words and 
sentences of the cosmic memory rec- 
ord. Yet, since they are part of 
that record, they are also related 
to, and associated with, the whole 
story written on the scroll of the 
High Priestess. 

As we persist in right watchful- 
ess, so that we attend to the in- 
nitely rich and varied experience 
which comes to us, moment by moment, 
our personal memory record becomes 
clear, and subconscious processes of 
association link it up with cosmic 
records. Thus we begin to see 
things in their true relationships, 
and we estimate every experience at 
its proper value. 

- 6 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 10 


It is not long before this results 
in the harmonization and co-ordina- 
tion of our subconsciousness with 
our conscious awareness* Thus, by 
mental vision of the meaning of past 
events, we come to understand the 
interaction of self-conscious activ- 
ities with subconscious life, and 
the relation of both to supercon- 
sciousness, shown by Key 6. 


Then we begin to enjoy the benefi- 
cent results of creative imagination 
as pictured by the Empress; for when 
we reason correctly, sub conscious - 
ness is impregnated with our right 
estimates of the meaning of experi- 
ence. Our day-to-day observations 
of life thus become the seeds of 
intuition and revelation. 

Intuition seems to come to us from 
a source outside ourselves, and so 
it does, in a way. But until we 
have learned to set our mental house 
in order, we cannot put ourselves in 
a proper position to hear what the 
Hierophant has to tell us. Today's 
intuitions are the fruit of yester- 
day’s clear vision. 


The Inner Voice is really the 
voice of the Emperor, who assumes 
the office of Hierophant when occa- 
sion arises. Hierophant and Emperor 
are not two, but one. The Emperor 
is the Divine Reason, taking the 
measure of the outer world of time 


- 7 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 10 


and space. The Hierophant is that 
same Divine Reason, conveying to us 
the eternal significance behind these 
outer appearances. 

Psychologically, intuition is the 
subconscious process of deduction, 
applied to the elaboration of the 
meaning of our conscious estimates 
of experience. Thus true intuition 
is a consequence of right reasoning, 
and they who are too careless to 
watch, and too lazy to reason, never 
hear the Inner Voice. 

Now look at your combination of 
Keys again. This time you will no- 
tice that in addition to the four 
pairs of cards related to the cen- 
tral Key there are also two other 
groups--0, 1 2 and 6, 7, 8--which 
have the peculiarity that the middle 
card is the mean arithmetical term 
between the other two. 

Thus our little group of nine Keys 
gives six significant groups of 
three: 0, J, 2; 0, 4, 8; I, 4, 7; 
2, 4, 6; 3, 4, 5; 6, 7, 8. During 
the next six days, conclude your 
morning practice by reading the med- 
itation given for that day's com- 
bination of three Keys, and during 
the entire day keep in mind the 
statement printed in italics at the 
end of the meditation. Begin your 
morning practice, from now on, by 

- 8 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 10 

looking for five minutes at the 
week's group of Keys. Then recite 
The Pattern . After this, write 
whatever suggests itself for your 
occult diary. Finish the practice 
period by reading aloud the medita- 
tion for the day. Copy the itali- 
cized sentence, and repeat it many 
times during the day. 

FIRST DAY: 0, T, 2. The boundless 
energy of the Life-power fills my 
whole being. I concentrate its 
light-giving power by close atten- 
tion to this day's experiences. 
Thus I engrave a clear, sharp record 
of this day upon the tablets of my 
memory. The Life-Breath works free- 
ly through me, to invigorate and 
perfect my whole field of personal 
express ion . 

SECOND DAY: 0, 4, 8. The vision 
of my heart's desire is a gift of 
the Spirit, a true perception of 
what now is really mine. The per- 
fect order which rules all things is 
even now adapting suitable condi- 
tions for the perfect manifestation 
of this vision. The mighty forces 
of my subconscious life are being 
co-ordinated for this manifestation. 
Life Limitless shows me my goal, 
sets my affairs in order, fills me 
with abundant strength . 

THIRD DAY: 1, 4, 7. All my senses 
are alert to catch every intimation 

-9- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 10 


of the perfect order behind the veil 
of appearances. The Divine Reason 
enlightens ray mind; for my personal- 
ity, even now, is a vehicle for the 
One Power ruling all things. I am a 
living witness of the perfect order 
which establishes peace and victory 
throughout creation . 

FOURTH DAY: 2,4,6. Everything I 
remember is a record of the working 
of the Perfect Law. Every event in 
my life has its proper place in the 
perfect order of the Life-power's 
self-expression. The healing pres- 
ence of the One Reality harmonizes 
my personal activities, conscious 
and subconscious, and establishes 
balance among them. Linked subcon- 
sciously with every phase of the One 
Bei.ng, I am truly one with the Power 
which establishes all things, and 
share its knowledge of right rela- 
tions . 

FIFTH DAY: 3, 4, 5. Today I reap 
the harvest of yesterday's clear 
vision, and plant the seeds of to- 
morrow's realization. Today I see 
eye to eye with God. Tod^y I listen 
to the Inner Voice, and give heed to 
its instruction. Filled with under- 
standing of the Perfect Law, I am 
guided, moment by i loment , along the 
path of liberation . 

SIXTH DAY: 6, 7, 8. Consciously 
and subconsciously, I realize the 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 10 

overshadowing presence of the One 
Identity. My personal existence is 
the field of the Life-power's perfect 
manifestation. The secret force 
which pervades the universe is my 
unfailing source of power. Harmony, 
peace and power are mine this day . 

. N.B. The two vertical groups, 
0, 3, 6 and 2, 5, 8 are intention- 
ally omitted from the exercises, 
because only six meditations are re- 
quired for a week's work. Try writ- 
ing a meditation for each of them, 
for your diary. 


- 11 - 




THE. £TERNAU TEACHER 
— )a Mean 5 




TAROT INTERPRETATION 11 
THE ETERNAL TEACHER 


FOR THIS week's study lay out Keys 
1 to 9 as follows: 

12 3 
4 5 6 
7 8 9 

In this arrangement the central 
agency is Key 5, which is the con- 
necting link between the Magician 
and the Hermit, the High Priestess 
and Strength, the Empress and the 
Chariot, the Emperor and the Lov- 
ers. This little tableau shows 
also that the High Priestess is the 
agency carrying the influence of the 
Magician into the field of activity 
represented by the Empress, and 
that Strength is the agency which 
is the means of completing the pow- 
er of the Chariot in the Hermit. 
The other combinations, 1-4-7 and 
3-6-9, will furnish material for 
your notebook. 

In the printed tableau of Tarot, 
Keys 1 to 7 are designated as prin- 
ciples, Keys 8 to 14 as laws, and 
Keys 15 to 21 as conditions, or 
stages of unfoldment . To avoid 
confusion, it may be said that 
while these designations are cor- 
rect, as applied to that particular 

- 1 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 11 


tableau, they do not apply to all 
combinations of the Tarot Keys. 

That is to say, with the exception 
of Keys 0, 1, 20 and 21, every Key 
of the series may be interpreted as 
representing, in some instances a 
principle, in others a law, and in 
others a condition. With the excep- 
tion of Keys 20 and 21, every Key 
may represent a principle . With the 
exception of Keys 0 and 21, every 
Key may represent a law , With the 
exception of Keys 0 and 1, every Key 
may represent a condition . 

By this, we mean that any Key in 
Tarot but 0 and 1 may be the final 
member of a group of three consecu- 
tive Keys like those in the small 
tableau you are studying this week. 
Any such Key may therefore be taken 
to represent the outcome, or effect, 
of the principle represented by the 
first member of that group of three 
p ic tures. 

Similarly, every Key but 0 and 21 
may be the middle Key, or mean term, 
of such a group of three. This 
position will indicate the law or 
agency through which the principle 
represented by the Zrst Key of the 
series is brought to bear upon the 
third member of the group. 

Again, every Key but 20 and 21 may 
be the first member of such a series 


- 2 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 11 


of three Keys. It will then repre- 
sent the principle whose operation 
is completed in that group through 
the agency of the second Key of the 
series, and made manifest in the 
condition typified by the third Key. 

Thus Key 0 may be representative 
of a principle in ten instances, but 
will never appear as either agency 
or effect. Key 1, however, though it 
also appears as principle ten times* 
appears once as agency, but never as 
effect . 

Key 2 is principle nine times, 
agency twice, effect once . Key 3 is 
principle nine times, agency three 
times, effect once . 

KEY 4 is principle eight times, 
agency four times,* effect twice . Key 
5 is principle eight times, agency 
five times, effect twice. 

Key 6 is principle seven times, 
agency six times, effect three times. 
Key 7 is principle seven times, 
agency seven times, effect three 
times . 

Key 8 is principle six times, a- 
gency eight times, effect four times. 
Key 9 is principle six times, agency 
nine times, effect four times* 

Keys 10 and 11 are each principle 
five, agency ten times, and effect 
four times . 

Thus it becomes evident that Keys 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 11 


0 to 10 bear numbers which indicate 
the number of times each may be tak- 
en as representing a law or agency . 
This rule, however, does not hold 
good for Keys bearing numbers larger 
than 10. 

Key 12 appears as principle four 
times, as agency nine times, as ef- 
fect six times. Key 13 appears as 
principle four times, as agency 
eight times, as effect s ijc times. 

Key 14 is principle three times, 
agency seven times, effect seven 
times. Key 15 is principle three 
times, agency six times, effect seven 
times . 

Key 16 is principle twice, agency 
five times, effect nine times. Key 17 
is principle twice , agency four 
times, effect eight times. 

Key 18 is principle once, agency 
three times, effect nine times. Key 
19 is principle once, agency twice, 
effect nine times. 

Key 20 is never principle, agency 
once, effect ten times. Key 21 is 
never principle, never agency, but 
appears as effect ten times. 

Thus Keys 0 and 21 have ten differ- 
ent aspects each. Keys 1 and 20 
have eleven each. Keys 2 and 19 
have 523)ff3 . Keys 3 and 18 have 
thirteen . Keys 4 and 17 have four- 
teen. Keys 5 and 16 have fifteen. 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 11 


Keys 6 and 15 have sixteen . Keys 7 
and 14 have seventeen . Keys 8 and 
13 have eighteen . Keys 9 and 12 
have nineteen . Keys 10 and 11 have 
twenty . From which comes this rule: 

The two members of any pair of 
Tarot Keys whose numbers add to 
21 have each the same total number 
of aspects . 


Again, you will notice that if the 
Tarot Keys be taken in consecutive 
pairs, as Oand 1, 2 and 3, 4 and 5* 
and so on, each member of any pair 
will appear the same number of times 
as principle, and also the same num- 
ber of times as effect. Thus 0 ant* 1 
are both principle ten times, and 
each is never an effect. 2 and 3 are 
both principle nine times, and each 
is an effect once. From this it ap- 
pears that there is a close relation 
between two members of any pair 
of Tarot Keys in which the Key bear- 
ing the lesser number is even, while 
that bearing the greater number is 
odd (as 2 and 3, 6 and 7, 14 and 15, 
20 and 21 ) . 


By careful examination of the Keys 
themselves it becomes evident that 
the Fool and the Magician are two 
aspects of one thing; that the High 
Priestess and the Empress are two 
faces of a single reality; that the 
Emperor and the Hierophant have a 
similar identity; that when the 


- 5 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 11 


situation depicted by the Lovers is 
established, it may be represented 
also by the symbolism of the Char- 
iot. 

Follow up this hint through the 
eleven pairs from 0 - 1 to 20 - 21. 
Then you will begin to see for your- 
self how striking are some of the 
i nt imations . 

For example, Keys 14 and 15 fall 
in this classification. Generally 
speaking, Key 14 is a symbol for the 
idea that every situation in your 
personal environment is an event 
which results from the operation of 
the One Identity. Key 15 is a sym- 
bol of the appearance presented by 
some of these situations, when the 
mind of the personal observer does 
not understand the significance of 
the event. To the eyes of ignor- 
ance, the working power sometimes 
looks like a devil. The understand- 
ing of the enlightened sees it as 
the operative Presence of God. 

Our course, INTRODUCTION TO TAROT , 
which was written after the present 
text was first composed, makes use of 
this principle of polarity in the 
consecutive pairs of Keys. Yet it 
by no means exhausts what may be 
learned from this. 

You will do well to go over pages 
1 to 6 several times, very slowly 
and carefully. As you read each 

- 6 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 11 

paragraph, lay before you the Keys 
it mentions. The relationships 
among. the symbols, remember, are 
already part of the subconscious 
content of your mind. 

Tarot was taken, in the first 
place, from man's inner conscious- 
ness, by persons trained in the 
examination of that consciousness. 
It is present, in all its richness 
of meaning, in your subconscious, 
ness, this very moment, and always. 
Your physical Tarot Keys are but an 
externalized transcript from your 
own inner Tarot . Your work with the 
physical Keys has for its object 
conscious recognition of these in- 
terior symbols, and conscious recog, 
nition of their practical meaning. 

These details may seem to be com- 
plicated, because they are unfamil- 
iar. They are introduced here in 
order to help you understand how a 
series containing only twenty-two 
pictures can be so rich in meaning, 
and so potent in suggestive influ- 
ence . 

When you begin to see what marvel- 
ous ingenuity is displayed in the 
construction and arrangement of 
these Keys, when you realize there 
is nothing arbitrary or haphazard in 
their symbolism, or in their rela- 
tion to numbers and letters, you 
will have more and more confidence in 

-7- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 11 


the intelligence of the persons who 
invented this wonderful device. 
When it becomes evident to you that 
you are working with tools whose na- 
ture shows they were made by masters 
of arcane wisdom, you will develop 
that intense expectation of the suc- 
cessful outcome of your work which 
is indispensable in order to achieve 
the best results. 

Coming now to the general inter- 
pretation of the groups of three 
Keys constituting this week's small 
tableau, we find them to be as 
f ol lows: 

When the self-conscious mind is 
occupied with close observation of 
the various conditions of environ- 
ment, materials are being gathered 
for the construction of the house of 
philosophy (Key 1). Yet these ac- 
quisitions of knowledge, valuable as 
they are, will not suffice to bring 
us to the goal (Key 9) without the 
operation of intuition (Key 5). Ob- 
servation gathers the facts (Key 1) 
which the Inner Voice explains (Key 
5), so that the seeker for light be- 
comes aware of the truth that all 
events are the operation of a single 
Identity (Key 9) . 

Seif-consciousness, when we have 
learned to concentrate, collects the 
reports of our senses as to what is 
going on round us (Key 1), but until 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 11 


these reports are co-ordinated by 
intuition (Key 5) so that their in- 
ner significance is made evident, we 
do not perceive the fundamental ten- 
dencies of the cosmic operation (Key 
9). Thus it is that intuition (Key 
5) is the agency whereby observation 
(Key 1) is brought to fruition in 
the adept's realization of the 
Cosmic Will, which realization is 
represented by Key 9. 

Intuition (Key 5) is also the 
agency whereby the subconscious rec- 
ord of the fundamental laws of 
manifestation (the scroll of Key 2) 
is brought to bear upon the work of 
directing the forces of sub-human 
planes of activity (Key 8L. True 
intuition provides us with knowledge 
of some cosmic principle or law 
which applies directly to the solu- 
tion of an immediate problem. 

The source of this knowledge which 
is communicated to us by the Inner 
Voice (Key 5L is really the Life- 
power's perfect, memory, to which we 
have access at subconscious levels 
(Key 2). The practical application 
of this knowledge to the solution of 
our problems invariably results in 
the modification of some phase of 
those deeper activities of our lives 
which are symbolized by the lion of 
Key 8. 

To the degree that we recover, 

- 9 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 11 


through intuition, the Life-power's 
own perfect knowledge of its pro- 
cesses of orderly manifestation, 
typified by Key 2, to that degree are 
we in a position to effect construc- 
tive modifications of subconscious 
activity* Because the stream of our 
personal consciousness is at all 
times continuous with the stream of 
universal Li fe- express ion (Key 2), 
we may be instructed by the Inner 
Voice (Key 5), and so gain knowledge 
of the secret of directing the spir- 
itual powers whose field of operation 
is in the realm of the subconscious- 
ness (Key 8) . 

The development of mental imagery 
by subconscious processes of deduc- 
tion and association contributes its 
share to intuition also, and has its 
outcome in a gradually unfolding 
realization that personality is only 
a vehicle or instrument for the 
manifestation of forces above and 
beyond the level of our personal 
consciousness. Below the level of 
the personal consciousness, the 
deductive process elaborates our ob- 
servations and memories, working out 
their logical consequences (Key 3). 
The result, or harvest, of this sub- 
conscious elaboration of experience 
is delivered to us by means of intu- 
ition (Key 5), and the sum and 
substance of this intuitional in- 


- 10 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 


struction received from the Inner 
Voice is always this: 


* 1 Your personal existence is a 
field of manifestation for cosmic 
activities. Your personality is not 
your Self. There is but one Self, 
and, as The Bhagavacl-Gita puts it: 
'Self is the rider in the chariot of 
the body. * ’ ’ 


This knowledge of the true Self, 
and of the fact that personality is 
but an instrument or vehicle (Key 
7), can be traced to intuitive per- 
ceptions in the minds of those who 
have formulated the knowledge (Key 
5.) The sources of these intuitions 
are deductions elaborated in the 
consciousness of the person who re- 
ceives guidance from the Inner Voice 
(Key 3). 

When the mental house has been set 
in order by reason (Key 4), so that 
external relationships are clearly 
perceived, intuition (Key 5) carries 
the process a step farther, and 
makes us aware of the underlying 
principles of internal relationship 
(Key 6). The perception of external 
order (Key 4) prepares us for rec- 
ognition of internal order (Key 6), 
and this recognition is intuitive 
(Key 5). 

An unreasonable man is one who 
fails to perceive the true relation- 

- 11 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 11 


ships among the events constituting 
his external environment. His es- 
timates and measurements are imper- 
fect. Thus even the Voice of Intui- 
tion is misunderstood by him, on the 
few occasions when he hears it. In 
consequence, there is discord in his 
internal relationships. 

He who sees the outer world 
reasonably (Key 4), understands the 
Voice (Key 5), and his obedience to 
this instruction results in the es- 
tablishment of the inner harmony 
pictured by the symbolism of the 
Lovers . 

For your practice this week, fol- 
low the same general plan as for 
last week. Use the Pattern as be- 
fore, and be sure to have the three 
Keys for the day placed before you, 
as you read the meditation which 
goes with them. 

FIRST DAY: 1, 5, 9. This day I am 
alert to gather, through every chan- 
nel of sensation, a set of clear 
impressions of the events constitut- 
ing the day's experience. This day 
I listen to the Inner Voice which 
knows, and can reveal to me, the 
significance of what my senses re- 
port. Thus from the day's events I 
learn the trend of the Will of the 
Eternal, as that Will is manifested, 
here and now. I am a witness of the 


-12 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 11 


Divine Self-expression; I partici- 
pate in the Divine Understanding; I 
am essentially one with the Eternal 
Will . 

SECOND DAY: 2, 5, 8. The record 
of universal law is incribed on the 
tablets of my subconsciousness. 
Whatever I need to know today is 
communicated to me from that record 
by the Inner Voice. Thus I learn 
today what must be done to make best 
use of the mighty forces of my inner 
life. The Law of the Eternal, made 
known to me by the Voice of Intui- 
tion, governs every phase of my 
personal life this day . 

THIRD DAY: 3, 5, 7, Today I reap 
the harvest of my yesterdays, I 
listen for that inner instruction 
which shows me the true meaning of 
past experience. I see ever more 
clearly that my personal existence 
this day is the culmination, and 
weaving together, of innumerable 
cosmic activities, continuous with 
the entire past history of the Life- 
power's self-expression. The Divine 
Understanding instructs me, and 
guides me in the way of victory . 

FOURTH DAY: 4, 5, 6. The One Life 
which rules the universe establishes 
order in my field of experience. The 
One Teacher, the source of all true 
knowing, imparts to me this day what 
I must know, in order to grasp the 

- 13 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 11 

import of this clay's experiences. 
My conscious and subconscious states 
of personal existence are over- 
shadowed by the harmonizing presence 
of the One Reality* The Eye of the 
Eternal sees through me its perfect 
order , the Voice of the Eternal 
speaks through me its word of truth , 
the Power of the Eternal establishes 
in my life its perfect law of love . 

FIFTH DAY: 1, 2, 3. Through my 
conscious thinking the Life-power 
integrates itself in forms of truth 
and beauty* Kennly alert to this 
day's experience, I write a clear 
record of its events upon the tablet 
of memory* Seeing things clearly, I 
plant the seeds of true understand- 
ing. I watch life intently, I store 
my memory with vividly realized ex- 
perience; thus I clarify and make 
definite all my mental imagery. 

SIXTH DAY: 7, 8, 9* My personal- 
ity is a vehicle of the One Life. 
The irresistible energy of the As- 
tral Light is coursing through me 
now. All that I am, all that I do, 
all that I have, is a direct expres- 
sion of the One Identity. The One 
Life lives through me, expressing 
its mighty power through my being, 
and leading me along the way which 
brings me to perfect realization of 
the One Identity . 


- 14 - 


(Vine* 

<0 


> /<L 


jAki 


A 


— y 


) 


J Ml 






~'rl?\LL IAJ. 


n 


THfc INNE.R. HM?IY»oM/ 
Pd^r u /v»«an ^ 


V /l. 


“7 


/X 


v\ 



MAGIC SQOA RE 



TAROT INTERPRETATION 12 
THE INNER HARMONY 


FOR THIS week's lesson lay out 
Keys 2 to 10 as follows: 

2 3 4 
5 6 7 
8 9 10 

Rule: When the number on a Tarot 
Key is the mean arithmetical term 
between the numbers on two others , 
that Key is: (ql a link betv/een the 
other two; (2) a symbol of the point 
of equilibrium between the forces 
those other two Keys symbolize; (3) 
a representation of the channel 
through which those forces act and 
react upon each other* 

For example, Key 3 bears a number 
which is half the sum of 2 and 4. 
Thus the Empress is the link between 
the High Priestess and the Emperor* 
She represents an activity which 
equilibrates the forces symbolized 
by those two Keys. She typifies also 
the channel which transmits the 
force of the High Priestess to the 
Emperor, and through which the force 
of the Emperor reacts upon the High 
Pries tess . 

These forces are your forces. 
Keep this always in mind. The calm 
steadiness of the High Priestess is 

- 1 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 12 


yours, whenever you let it find ex- 
pression. Yours are the fecund 
potencies symbolized by the rich 
fertility of the Empress' garden. 
Your conscious mind, as the com- 
poser and regulator of your person- 
al world, has all the authority and 
royalty of the Emperor. The Hiero- 
phant stands for the real presence 
in your life of a Wisdom which can 
guide you aright in every detail of 
your daily sel f- express ion . The 
Lovers portray the true relation 
existing now between your conscious 
and subconscious minds, overshadow- 
ed by the protecting presence of 
the superconscious. The Chariot 
depicts what is really true at this 
moment and always, the fact that 
your personality is a vehicle for 
the One Power which masters and 
regulates all the mysterious forces 
of nature. 

The eighth Key, Strength, illrs- 
trates the control exerted by your 
subconsciousness over all the ani- 
mal, vegetable and mineral aspects 
of your personal make-up and your 
environment. The silent watchful- 
ness of the Hermit is a true like- 
ness of the overshadowing presence 
of the One Identity, always aware of 
your progress toward union with 
Itself, always holding up a guiding 
beacon to light your way. The Wheel 

- 2 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 12 


of Fortune is a symbol of the truth 
that every phase of your personal 
activity is a manifestation of the 
perfectly co-ordinated progress of 
the cycles of the cosmos. 

Tarot, you have been told, speaks 
by evoking thought. It does more, 
for it is a record of knowledge pos- 
sessed by great adepts, concerning 
what man really is. To look at the 
Tarot Keys is to impress that knowl- 
edge on your subconscious mind, 
through the medium of the natural 
language of subconsciousness, pic- 
torial symbolism. Tarot speaks to 
your subconsciousness in its native 
tongue. 

It does not merely tell your 
brain-mind what you really are. It 
shows your subconsciousness the 
truth about yourself. Subcons cious - 
ness then builds the pattern repre- 
sented by the Keys into actual 
physical structure, gradually alter- 
ing your psychical and physical 
composition so as to correspond to 
the Tarot specifications. Even 
though your brain-mind may not grasp 
the significance of many details of 
the pattern, your subconsciousness 
will inevitably respond to it. 

Study of these lessons will also 
develop your conscious knowledge of 
the various elements in your person- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 12 


ality. The numeral and other cor- 
relations of the Tarot Keys, being 
in accordance with actual laws of 
thought, practically force the con- 
scious mind to perceive how the 
various aspects of personality act 
and react on one another. 

Thus Tarot affects both conscious- 
ness and subconsciousness. On the 
conscious level, it builds up, 
stage by stage, an orderly and accu- 
rate realization of the nature, pow- 
ers and possibilities of human 
personality. On the subconscious 
level, it operates to bring into 
manifestation the perfected expres- 
sion of all your powers, by means of 
the body-building functions of sub- 
consciousness . When you use Tarot 
properly, it shows you what you can 
be, and aids you to achieve actual 
realization of what it teaches you 
about yourself. 

Hence it is important for you to 
follow the lessons with the Keys 
laid out before you. When you read 
about a Key, look at it. The words 
of the lesson will help you under- 
stand some part of the truth about 
yourself. Light-rays reflected from 
the pictures into your eye, after 
stimulating your sigh t- cen te r , will 
stir your subconsciousness into ac- 
tivities which will change your very 

- 4 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 12 


flesh and blood in response to the 
Tarot patterns. 

This is, indeed, an * ‘Operation of 
the Sun,'' or a practical work be- 
longing to the ‘‘Magic of Light, 1 ' 
The light which enables you to see 
the Keys either comes straight from 
the day-star itself, or is a trans- 
formation of the sun's radiance into 
some other kind of illumination. 

The six groups of Keys dealt with 
in this lesson are as follows: 2, 6, 
10; 3, 6,. 9; .4* 6, 8; 5, 6, 7; 2, 3, 
4; and 8, 9, 10. You may, if you 
like, work out also the meanings of 
2, 5,8 and 7, 4, 1. The general 
meaning of the six groups selected 
for interpretation is this: 

Memory is the basis of our grasp 
of our relation to the cycles of 
cosmic activity, but until the re- 
lation between the conscious and 
subconscious minds, and their joint 
relation to superconsciousness , are 
thoroughly understood, the memory 
record will be faulty, and our grasp 
of the law of cycles will be incom- 
plete. 

It must be understood that memory 
(Key 2) is more than a record of 
personal experience. The scroll of 
the High Priestess has written upon 
it, so to say, a synopsis of the 
process whereby we come into exist- 

- 5 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 12 


ence, and this part of the subcon- 
scious memory record is kept in the 
cells of the solar plexus (Key 10). 
Furthermore, subconsciousness must 
be in right relation to supercon- 
sciousness before the record can be 
made available for personal instruc- 
tion. The sel f- consc ious mind must 
know that through right suggestion 
subconsciousness may be opened to an 
influx of wisdom from superconscious 
levels, and the appropriate sugges- 
tion must be given. 

This is done best by the simple 
act of attentive listening to the 
Inner Voice, to be considered later 
in this lesson. We must recognize 
the truth that within us is a point 
of contact with the Universal Mind, 
which already knows all there is to 
know about the law of cycles pictur- 
ed by Key 10. This Universal Mind, 
pictured by the angel in Key 6, com- 
municates its knowledge to us 
through the agency of subconscious- 
ness. Whatever part of that knowl- 
edge we may so receive becomes then 
an indelible portion of the personal 
memory record (Keys 2, 6* 10). 

The limited experience of the 
senses is not adequate to serve as a 
basis for the creative imagination 
pictured by the Empress. Subcon- 
sciousness cannot set our personal 
house in order at its level, unless, 

^ 6 - 

V 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 12 


through its reflective power, we have 
established contact with supercon- 
sciousness. This contact, however, 
can be established in no other way 
than through the activity of the 
conscious mind. The latter must 
grasp intellectually the law that 
subconsciousness is always amenable 
to suggestion. It must formulate 
suggestions which set subconscious^ 
ness free from sense domination, and 
open it to receive instruction from 
superconsciousness. 

When this is done, we begin to be 
aware of the light symbolized by the 
star in the Hermit's lantern, and we 
set out consciously toward the goal 
of union with the One Identity. We 
must know that this union is actu- 
ally the result of physiological 
changes whose roots are in the pro- 
cess of assimilation. We deliber- 
ately take up the work of building a 
new body, a new personality. 

Our conscious minds cannot do the 
building. Their part is to see that 
the building is begun, that the 
specifications are laid down, that 
the materials are assembled for the 
work. Then the task of actual con- 
struction is handed over to subcon- 
sciousness, which begins by submit- 
ting plans, or mental images in the 
form of desires which embody the es- 

- 7 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 12 


sen ti a 1 

ideas 

we wish to mani 

f es t 

(Keys 3, 

6, 9). 



These 

mental 

images are then 

sub- 

j ec ted 

to the 

tests of reason 

(Key 


4)* At our present level of cevel- 
opment, not every image which rises 
from subconsciousness is one we 
really desire to realize* Our fer- 
tility of invention sometimes 
exceeds our true requirements. The 
plans must be tested and approved. 

This is distinctly the work of 
self-conscious reasoning, pictured 
by the Emperor. Again, it is neces- 
sary that we should have keen dis- 
crimination as to the respective 
functions of the two inodes of per- 
sonal consciousness. It is not the 
part of subconsciousness to criti- 
cize. It is her part to produce; 
and weeds of error, such as faulty 
observation, old habits of thought, 
and so on, sprout just as quickly 
in that fertile soil as does the 
good seed of wisdom. 

This is the point of the parable 
in the Gospel according to St. Mat- 
thew, concerning the wheat and the 
tares. 

4 ‘So the servants of the house- 
holder came and said unto him, Sir, 
didst thou not sow good seed in thy 
field? from whence then hath it 
tares? 


- 8 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 12 


* 4 He said unto them. An enemy hath 
done this. The servants said unto 
him, Wilt thou then that we go and 
gather them up? 

‘‘But he said, Nay; lest while ye 
gather up the tares, ye root out al- 
so the wheat with them. Let both 
grow together until the harvest; and 
in the time of harvest I will say to 
the reapers, Gather first the tares, 
and hind them into bundles to burn 
them; but gather the wheat into my 
barn ,, (Matthew 13:27 to 30)* 

This is the principle of revision, 
well understood by all creative 
thinkers. Experienced writers, for 
example, always let their first draft 
of a work come as it will, with lit- 
tle or no attempt at control. It is 
fatal to give too much attention to 
matters of detail and form while 
writing a first draft. 

Much practice, of course, reduces 
the amount of waste. When the two 
aspects of cons c iousnes s are bal- 
anced in their operation, as shown 
in Key 6, the original specifica tions 
for a given piece of work are usu- 
ally so definite that the subcon- 
scious response to them is similarly 
accurate. In time, every level of 
consciousness is brought into har- 
monious activity, because the rea- 
soned definitions of the conscious 


- 9 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 12 


mind are correct. Thus the sugges- 
tions given to the personal subcon- 
sciousness are what they ought to 
be, and all confusion and disharmony 
are eliminated from the deeper stra- 
ta of subconsciousness (Keys 4, 6, 
8 ). 

Perhaps the most important thing 
to remember is to make a regular 
practice of turning over all one's 
problems to the Inner Teacher sym- 
bolized by the Hierophant. No prob- 
lem is too small, none too great. 
The simple act of sitting still arid 
listening for the counsel of the In- 
ner Voice is the most potent sugges- 
tion for effecting the balance of the 
two modes of personality shown in 
Key 6. As a result of this prac- 
tice, which rapidly develops true 
discrimination, one becomes very 
definitely aware of the real presence 
of the One Self which an ancient 
scripture describes as ‘ * the rider 
in the chariot of the body. * * In 
brief, all these good results accrue 
from regular, daily practice of the 
counsel: 4 *Be still, and know that I 
am God* * (Keys 5, 6, 7). 

Key 6, then, is seen to be a pic- 
ture of the true relation between 
what is elsewhere represented in 
Tarot by Keys 3 and 4. Just as the 
man in Key 6 looks toward the woman, 
so does the Emperor look toward the 

-1C- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 12 


Empress. She is the bringer-for th. 
He is the inciter of her activity. 
Mere memory, like the High Priest- 
ess, is virgin, and therefore ster- 
ile. But when memory is elaborated 
in creative imagination, in the ac- 
tive composition and development of 
imagery, in response to accurate, 
reasonable interpretations of exper- 
ience, then subconsciousness brings 
forth a rich store of food for mind 
and body. Then, too, the memory 
record is made richer as the direct 
result of the imaging process, and 
the richer, also, by the orderly 
classifications of reason (Keys 2, 
3, 4). 

Similarly, the Hermit, correspond- 
ing to the angel of Key 6, has 
Strength, a symbol of subconscious 
activities, and the Wheel of For- 
tune, a type of conscious grasp of 
the operation of cosmic cycles, on 
either side of him in the series of 
Keys. It is really always the light 
of Universal Wisdom (the Hermit’s 
lantern) which brings about the con- 
trol of natural forces shown in 
Key 8. And the state where we are 
consciously aware of the relation 
between our personal activities and 
the great sequences of energy- trans- 
formation pictured by Key 10 is 
brought about by the descent of pow- 
er from the Universal Mind (Keys 8, 
9, 10). 


- 31 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 12 
MEDITATIONS 

FIRST DAY: 2, 6, 10. My subcon- 
scious mind receives the influx of 
wisdom from superconscious levels. 

It is continually alert for impres- 
sions from that highest source. Its 
office is to make we aware of my true 
place in the universal order. Unit- 
ed to the One Life, my thoughts, 
words and deeds this day are harmon- 
ious expressions of the perfect 
Universal Order . 

SECOND DAY: 3, 6, 9. Abundance in 
all things is mine. The rich gifts 
of the Spirit come freely to me, 
through subconscious channels. I am 
overshadowed by the protecting pres- 
ence of the One Identity* Wisdom, 
right discrimination , and security 
are mine this day . 

THIRD DAY: 4, 6, 8. I establish 
order in my affairs. I release my 
subconsciousness from all domination 
by selfish personal motives. I am 
strong in mind and body through the 
establishment of inner harmony. Or- 
der, beauty and power find expression 
in my life this day. 

FOURTH DAY: 5, 6, 7. Wisdom it- 
self is my Teacher. By it I am 
freed from the delusion of false 
appearance. My personality is a 
responsive instrument for the One 

- 12 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 12 


Reality. The instruction of the In* 
ner Voice harmonizes all my states 
of personal consciousness, and vic- 
tory is mine today over every op-* 
pearance of adversity . 

FIFTH DAY: 2, 3, 4. Strife is at 
an end. False appearances have no 
power over me. I am directed in all 
my way s by the Supreme Reason. I am 
at peace, for Wisdom guides me, and 
Divine Order finds free expression 
through my thoughts and words and 
deeds . 

SIXTH DAY: 8, 9, 10. A tide of 
power flows through me. I draw ever 
nearer to perfect realization of the 
One Identity. My life is one with 
the Life of all. Strength, guidance 
and mastery are mine this day . 


- 13 - 


CLASSICS OF AGELESS WISDOM 


Having emptied yourself, remain 
where you are. 

- - Lao-tze 

The wise, knowing through the 
practice of subjective concentra- 
tion, the A1 1 -Efful gent One, extreme- 
ly difficult to see; concealed deep 
beyond everything; shining through 
all acts in every heart; inaccess- 
ible, and without beginning; they 
transcend all pleasure and pain. 

- -A' a thopanishad 

Even like the radii fixed in the 
hub of a chario t- wheel , is He, the 
Eternal One, pervading everything. 

and appearing as many, after the 
forms of the intellect. Meditate on 
this thy Self as the syllable AUM. 
May you ever be happy in the real- 
ization of THAT which transcends all 
da rkness * 

- - Mundakopan is had 

He thought: I may become many and 
multiply. He objectified Himself and 
evolved all this, everything what- 
ever. Having evolved this, He en- 
tered into it; and entering became 
all positives and negatives, all 
spirit and all matter, all infinite 
and all finite. 

- -Taitt iropanis had 

- 14 - 


Then, when It was all Unmanifest, 
It, of Itself, became manifest 
through name and form, endowing ev- 
erything with this or that name, and 
this or that form. All things even 
till now are defined by some name and 
some form. This is the import of 
Its entering into the objective 
evolved from Itself. 

- - Brhadaranyakopan ishad 

The God of the twice-born is Fire. 
The God of the silent one is his 
heart. Poor intellects find their 
God in idols. The even-eyed en- 
lightened one sees God everywhere . 

- -l/t taragita 

For the Paternal Sel f- bego t ten 
Mind, understanding His works, sowed 
in all tike fiery bonds of love, that 
all things might continue loving for 
an infinite time. That the connected 
series of things might intellectual- 
ly remain in the Light of the Fa- 
ther; that the elements of the world 
might continue their course in mu- 
tual attraction. 

-- The Chaldean Oracles 

But the Paternal Mind accepteth 
not the aspiration of the soul until 
she hath passed out of her oblivious 
state, and pronounceth the WORD, 
regaining the memory of the pure Pa- 
ternal symbol. 

--The Chaldean Oracles 

- 15 - 


'J 


The Paternal Mind hath sown sym- 
bols in the soul. Unto some he giv- 
e th ability to receive the Knowledge 
of Light; and others, even when 
asleep, He maketh fruitful from His 
own strength. 

--The Chaldean Oracles 

The Maker of all things, self- 
operating, framed the world. And 
there was a certain mass of fire: all 
these things , self-operating, He 
produced, that the body of the uni- 
verse might be conformed, that the 
world might be manifest, and not 
appear membranous. 

For He assimilateth the images to 
Himself, casting them around His own 
form. For they are an imitation of 
His mind, but that which is fabri- 
cated hath something of body. 

There is a Venerable NAME, with a 
sleepless revolution, leaping forth 
into the worlds, through the rapid 
tones of the Father. 

--The Chaldean Oracles 


- 16 - 



o-lfc DWELLING PUftC£ Of SPIRIT 
f M e a n 7 


AM6 1C 5Qo ARE 
£ U 4 

7 9 

to 3 8 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 13 
THE DWELLING-PLACE OF SPIRIT 

YOUR STUDY tableau for this week 
is as follows; 

3 4 5 
6 .7 .8 
9 JO 11 

It emphasizes Key 7 as the mean 
term between the pairs 3-11, 4*10, 
5-9 and 6-8. Besides these combina- 
tions, we shall consider also the 
sequences 3,4,5, and 9, 10 4 11, 
omitting 3, 6, 9 and 5, 8, 11. Of 
these, the first group has been in- 
terpreted in Lesson 12, and the oth- 
er will be interpreted in Lesson 14. 

You will remember that the general 
meaning of Key 7 has been given as 
Receptivity-Will. This Key repre- 
sents personality as a vehicle for 
the directive principle of the uni- 
verse. /personality is a movable 
field of action; like a chariot, 
fenced in by the boundaries of 
organism and environment. The rider 
in the car is the true Self, and 
that Self is identical with the pow*r 
er which sets the universe in motion 
and keeps it going through the vari- 
ous cycles of transformation. 

The rider is the One Will. Age- 
less Wisdom teaches that the will- 


- 1 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 13 


power in any human personality is 
really an influx of the directive 
energy symbolized by the charioteer. 
The chariot is the personal organ- 
ism. It is drawn or moved by two 
sphinxes, representing the positive 
and negative phases of sensation, 
and receives the influx of the uni- 
versal will-power through subcon- 
scious channels, as shown in Key 6, 
where the woman is the agency re- 
flecting the light of the angel’s 
glory to man. 

When we consider Key 7 as a symbol 
of agency, the emphasis falls on 
what is represented by the car it- 
self, that is, upon the function of 
the personal organism as the vehicle 
of the One Life. Thus, in saying 
Key 7 is the agency linking Key 3 to 
Key 11, we mean that the influx of 
the cosmic will-force is the means 
whereby the image-making power of 
subconsciousness (Key 3) is enabled 
to bring about the development of 
faith which adjusts what Oriental 
teachers call Karma (Key 11). When 
we are consciously receptive to the 
influx of the Life-power, and con- 
sciously submit every detail of our 
personal lives to its direction, our 
mental imagery becomes clear. Our 
intention to act as vehicles lor the 
One Life is carried to subconscious 
levels, where it works to bring 

- 2 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 13 


forth from the garden of the Empress 
the 11 bread of life'* in the form of 
right desires. Then, because we 
imagine truly, our thoughts, as they 
take form in action, adjust our per- 
sonal lives so that we are harmon- 
iously related to the working of the 
law of equilibrium. 

Receptivity, again, is the means 
whereby we are enabled to receive 
the direct influence of the universal 
regulative power symbolized by the 
Emperor. When we are properly 
receptive, our personal reasoning is 
in unison with the Universal Reason. 
Then we see things as they really 
are, not merely as they look. Our 
receptivity puts us in conscious re- 
lation with the cycles of universal 
activity symbolized by the Wheel of 
Fortune, 

To those who have no knowledge of 
our method of procedure it seems 
that we have unusual command of cir- 
cumstances, or that we are unusually 
lucky. Apparently, we make things 
occur to suit ourselves. We work 
wonders which amaze all beholders. 

To ourselves, however, it seems 
otherwise. We know that all we do 
is to submit ourselves completely to 
the influence of the directive prin- 
ciple of the universe. When we do 
this, we find that the least details 
of our daily experience are brought 


v-O 


TAHOT INTERPRETATION 13 


^ 1 ' 




into harmony with the cosmic order. 
Thus our thoughts, words and deeds 
become the specialized manifestation 
of cosmic tendencies. 

Receptivity enables us also to 
reap the full benefits of intuition* 
As you have learned, true intuition, 
the Triumphant and Eternal Intelli- 
gence, invariably teaches us how to 
apply some principle which is eter- 
nally true, to the solution of a 
particular personal problem. The 
principle is always universal, but 
intuition is what enables us to see 
just how the principle bears upon 
the situation which confronts us, in 
order that we may change the situa- 
tion. Thus, the more receptive we 
are, the more intuitive do we become 
and the clearer and better are we 
able to see the path immediately 
before us. This is the path which 
leads ultimately to conscious union 
with the One Identity pictured by 
the Hermit. 

Key 7, furthermore, is the link 
between Key 6 and Key 8. It is 
through thinking continually of per- 
sonality as being a vehicle for the 
Universal Will, that we experience 
the good results of the harmonious 
relation between the conscious and 
subconscious minds, as pictured by 
the Lovers, For then we no longer 
try to bend conditions by means of 

- 4 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 13 


** personal will.'* Instead, we sim- 
ply perceive the actual presence in 
our lives of the One Will which is 
sufficient to meet our every require- 
ment. 

This attitude of willingness con- 
stitutes a most potent suggestion to 
subconsciousness. It clears away 
the negative effects of the wrong 
notion that we have to accomplish 
anything whatever through the exer- 
cise of merely personal powers. The 
powers assume person a ! form as they 
are expressed in thought, speech and 
action, hut we know that the powers 
themselves do not have their origin 
in the field of personality. 

S u b c o n s c i o u s n e s s , acting in 
response to the suggestion that per- 
sonality is actually the abode of 
Omnipotence itself, brings the sub- 
human forces of the personal field 
into line with the suggestion. Thus 
the functions of the entire organism 
are adjusted, and even body struc- 
ture is altered. The wild beasts of 
the lower nature are tamed and 
brought under control. A tide of 
strength surges through the whole 
organism, and all the powers of per- 
sonality are co-ordinated. 

In the sequence 3, 4, 5, Key 4 is 
the mean term. It shows us the pow- 
er of reason as the link between the 

- 5 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 13 

subconscious process of mental 
imagery and the superconscious 
activities which bring to us the 
instruction of the Inner Teacher. 
That is to say, the deductive pro- 
cess of the subconscious mind forms 
groups and complexes of associated 
ideas. These are then Submitted to 
the regulative function of self- 
conscious reasoning, symbolized by 
the Emperor. 

Until this has been done, and the 
materials made available by the cre- 
ative imagery of the subconscious 
have been assorted and classified, we 
are not ready to listen to the Inner 
Voice. For it is in the process of 
consciously sorting and arranging 
our mental images that the nature of 
our problems becomes evident to us. 
Then only do we perceive in what 
respects we are yet in ignorance. 

Until we know what we do not know 
we are not ready to seek, much less 
to profit by, the higher guidance 
typified by the Hierophant. For 
intuition gives us light from above, 
but cfifly when we are ready to seek 
that light. Unless we know how to 
ask, we cannot receive the higher 
instruction, and until our conscious 
reasoning has shown us clearly what 
it is we do not know, we cannot for- 
mulate the specific questions which 
are necessary, if we hope to receive 

- 6 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 13 


from the Inner Voice that definite 
elucidation of principles which will 
guide us to right thought and right 
action. 

The sequence 9, 10, 11 shows the 
Wheel of Fortune ais the mean term 
between the Hermit and Justice. The 
Hermit is the same as the charioteer 
and he is really also the same as 
the Emperor and the Hierophant. He 
is the guiding power, lighting our 
path to the heights of spiritual 
attainment. The mountain whereon he 
stands is within us, not outside. 
The path leading to this height is 
therefore the way of gradual prog- 
ress in the science of self-knowl- 
edge. The Hermit is the goal of our 
hopes, and he is also the foundation 
of our personal existence* 

The Wheel of Fortune represents 
the cycles of cosmic law through 
which the power of the One Identity 
is communicated to us, its centers 
of expression. The outcome of the 
working of the law represented by 
Key 10 is shown in Key 11. The One 
Identity adjusts our personal lives 
through the orderly sequence of its 
own self-manifestation. The more 
clearly we perceive this, the more 
definitely are we established in 
f aith. We learn to say, 4 4 So be 
it'* to the heavenly order. No mat- 
ter how things look to us, we affirm 

- 7 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 13 

that the present situation is an or- 
derly development from all previous 
conditions * 

What should be understood here is 
that faith in the cosmic order is no 
mere pretense. It is really a logi- 
cal deduction from what we know of 
the power, wisdom and beauty of the 
One Reality. Concerning this, as 
exemplified in the idea of Victory 
(which is definitely associated with 
Key 7 through its number), Albert 
Pike writes: 

1 ‘Victory is the perfect Success, 
which with the Deity, to Whom the 
future is present, attends, and to 
His creatures is to result, from the 
plan of Equilibrium everywhere 
adopted by Him. It is the reconcil- 
iation of Light and Darkness, Good 
and Evil, Free-will and Necessity, 
God's omnipotence and Man's liberty; 
and the harmonious issue and result 
of all, without which the universe 
would be a failure. It is the in- 
herent Perfection of the Deity, man- 
ifested in His Idea of the universe; 
but it is that Perfection regarded 
as the successful result, which it 
both causes or produces and is; the 
perfection of the plan being its 
success. It is the prevailing cf 
Wisdom over Accident; and it, in 
turn, both produces and is the Glory 
and Laudation of the Great Infinite 


- 8 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 13 


Contriver, Whose plan is thus suc- 
cessful and glorious.' ' 

- -Moral s and Dogma, p . 767. 

Our affirmation that the Creative 
Process is a success now, includes 
the realization that since we are 
not yet all-seeing and all-knowing, 
it is more logical to assume that 
apparent failures owe their appear- 
ance to our ignorance. Concerning 
this we may quote also from The 
Sculptor Speaks (Doubleday, Doran & 
Co.), in which Jacob Epstein sets 
forth this view: 

"I do not agree with the theory 
that the magic wand changes some- 
thing ugly in nature; transmutation 
by a painter or sculptor into some- 
thing beautiful. The thing itself 
is always beautiful, or will appear 
beautiful to the person who knows 
how to look at it . . . The beauty 


was a 

ilways there 

. It is 

only the 

a cci c 

lental circumstance 

s of life 

that 

conceal the 

beauty 

from some 

peopl 

e sometimes 

and from 

some peo- 

pie a 

lways. * 9 



To 

know how to 

look at 

i t * That 


is the thing. We need not agree 
with Epstein's notion that inability 
to look is merely the outcome of 
accidental circumstances. Rather 
would we say that to each one in due 
season, enlightenment comes--not by 

- 9 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 13 


accident, but by a growth which 
works outward from within, under the 
guidance of the One Identity. 

* * * * 

Follow out the same general plan 
in your practice this week as in the 
preceding lessons. 

Write out six meditations for 
yoursel f . 


Men. 3 - 7 - 1 / 

TueS 4 - 1-10 

Wtd 5-1-1 

• 6 ~ i ~ % 

• 4-io-ll 

S*f. 3-4-5 


- 10 - 


2*jJAKi=$ .aArJKN 

SliClEb - Pl-U=> 15-14**7 


✓'"‘S 


TAROT 

jNT£R?R£TATJo. 

' '-f£ secret oh Pow e ^ 

3cg/nrvinJ tv\ A |,‘c S«juarec, - - . -[ 

Pwo'f Jc'e^ 8 >UYn 24 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 14 
THE SECRET OF POWER 


THE TABLEAU for this week is: 

4 5 6 

7 8 9 

10 11 12 

In this arrangement, Key 8 is the 
pivot round which the tableau re- 
volves. The same Keys may be so 
arranged as to form a magic square, 
in which the sum of the horizontal, 
vertical and diagonal rows will be 
the same. In this magic square, 
Key 8 remains at the center, but the 
order of the other Keys is changed, 
as follows; 

7 12 5 

6 8 10 

11 4 9 


Similar treatment of the tableaus 
given in Lessons 10 to 13 produces 
the following magic squares: 


3 6 1 

4 9 2 

5 10 3 

6 11 4 

^2 4 6 

3 5 7 

4 6 8 

5 7 9 

K 0 5 

18 16 

9 2 7 

10 3 8 


Of these, the first, because it 
includes the zero-sign fails to give 
the, summation of 12 in the central 
vertical row, and in the bottom hor- 
izontal row; but all the others are 
true magic squares. 

- 1 - 


I — >W 


n 




o 5 7 
<4 t> 2. 
9 - I 3 


JLJ*ru&t> (o ItJOuO 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 14 


Eliphas Levi says: ‘‘The Tarot 
alone interprets the magic squares 
of Agruppa and Paracelsus, as we may 
satisfy ourselves by forming these 
same squares with the Keys of the 
Tarot, and reading off the hiero- 
glyphs thus collected. 

‘‘By adding each of the columns of 
these squares, you will obtain in- 
variably the characteristic number 
of the planet, and, finding the ex- 
planation of this number by the 
hieroglyphs of the Tarot, you pro- 
ceed to seek the sense of all the 
figures . . . The result of this 

operation will be a complete and 
profound acquaintance with all the 
allegories and mysteries concealed 
by the ancients under the symbol of 
each planet, or rather of each per- 
sonification of the influences, celes- 
tial or terrestrial, upon all the 
events of life. '* ( Ritual of Trans- 

cendental Mgic, chapter 2.) 

As usual, Levi wrote one thing 
here for the instructed, and another 
for the uninitiate. What he left out 
of his explanation is that only two 
planets have magic squares which can 
be represented by Tarot Keys. These 
are the planets Saturn and Jupiter. 

A magic square of Saturn contains 
nine numbers, and a magic square of 
Jupiter has sixteen numbers. In a 
square of Mars there are twenty-five 

- 2 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 14 


numbers; a square of the Sun in- 
cludes thirty-six; a square of Venus 
has forty- nine; a square of Mercury 
numbers sixty- four; and a square of 
the Moon includes eighty-one. 


Now, there srre only twenty-two 
Tarot Keys. Hence no magic square 
containing more than sixteen numbers 
can be formed with these Keys. 


£r>u olXj Jjo 


Fourteen Saturn squares, each con- 
taining nine Keys, may be formed. 
The first of these, containing the 
numbers from 0 to 8 is, as we have 
said, slightly imperfect in summa- 
tion, though truly magic in form. 
All the others are truly magical, in 
both form and summation. The last 
contains the numbers from 13 to 21, 
arranged in magic order. 


V* Y 

£ 11 Ko.5 
o 11 


Seven Jupiter squares may be made. 
The first, containing the numbers 
from 0 to 15, is imperfect in sum- ^ 
mation. The others, of which the 
square containing the numbers from 
6 to 21 is the last, are perfect 
magic squares. 



In subsequent lessons you will find 
the remaining Saturn squares. The 
seven Jupiter squares will also be 
given and explained. 


At present this may seem to be far 
from your practical concerns, but, 
if you w ill lay out your Tarot Keys, 
so that you see their relation to 

- 3 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 14 


one another, actually before you, 
you will find plenty of material for 
your occult notebook. Because Tarot 
speaks by evoking thought, it has a 
special message for every student. 
Certain arrangements are favorable 
for this process of evocation, which 
calls forth ideas from the depths of 
subconsciousness. Of all arrange- 
ments of Tarot Keys for such work, 
these magic squares are the most 
potent. 

You will get next to nothing from 
this information unless you put the 
Keys before you in the positions 
indicated. Then, instead of trying 
consciously to puzzle out what they 
mean, simply let your eyes take in 
what they see. 

When you get the knack of this, you 
will find your mind has a tendency 
toward a state resembling 1 ‘ brown 
study,*' or reverie. All at once, 
while you sit looking at the Keys, 
there will be an uprush of percep- 
tion. Not always a perception of 
what the Tarot combination signifies, 
as a group of symbols, or anything 
of that sort. Often you will find 
that your mind seems to come alive 
in some particular way. An idea 
flashes out. Record it in your note- 
book as soon as you get it. This 
prevents loss of many treasures. 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 14 


Following the regular course of 
this instruction, the groups of Keys 
selected for this lesson are: 4, 8, 


12; 5, 8, 11; 6, 8, 10; 7, 8, 9; 
4, 5, 6; and 10, 11, 12. These will 


be used in connection with the daily 
meditations. 

The fact that subhuman forces of 
nature are at all times under the 


full domination of human subcon- 


sci iousness is the great secret of 
practical occultism represented by 
Key 8. Remember, this control is a 
present reality, no matter what 
appearances may be. Even though 
subhuman forces appear to act ad- 
versely, their reaction is an auto- 
matic response to states of your 
subconsciousness. Change the latter 
and the reactions are changed also. 

This law of subconsciousness , that 



the level of human 


life-expression reacts automatically 
to human subconscious states, is the 
secret of our power over conditions 7j 
The character of our human subcon- 
scious states is determined by the 
quality of our reasoning. When we 
reason correctly, so that our esti- 
mates of external conditions, and of 
our relation to them, conform to the. 
universal Constituting Intelligence 
symbolized by the Emperor, then 
forces which have seemed inimical 
are transformed into allies. 


- 5 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 14 


This leads ultimately to complete 
reversal of our former attitudes. 
Instead of being burdened with re- 
sponsibilities, weighed down by the 
load of our cares and duties, we 
come to see clearly that we do noth- 
ing of ourselves. 

This perception does not lead to 
our giving up action. It does not 
result in quietism. It involves no 
loss of interest in life. It does 
not make us withdraw from active 
participation in human affairs. On 
the contrary, it makes our days more 
interesting than before, and we find 
ourselves accomplishing far more, 
with less effort, than we did when we 
supposed we had it all to do our- 
selves. 

No matter how long you have been 
trying to do things the wrong way, 
the whole course of nature begins to 
work in your favor as soon as you 
begin letting things be done the 
right way. It stays in your favor, 
just as long as you retain the right 
mental attitude. (Keys 4, 8, 12.) 

To maintain the right attitude 
becomes much easier when you have 
accustomed yourself to listen regu- 
larly to the Inner Voice. The more 
often you take your problems to the 
Hierophant, the sooner will you be- 
come vividly aware of his guidance. 
Take the little problems, as well as 

- 6 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 14 


the big ones. Build up in your 
mind, by repeated practice, a con- 
fident expectation of being guided 
aright in all things. 

Instead of running to human beings 
for advice, seek the counsel of the 
Great Te a cher. You will be delight- 
ed to find how quickly the response 
comes . 

* 4 In quietness and confidence shall 
be your strength,'' is absolutely 
true. Invariably obey what the 
Inner Voice suggests, and even the 
most threatening appearances of 
antagonism will be transformed into 
actual aids to your progress and to 
the realization of your desires. 

You will find yourself gaining con- 
tinually in poise, as your faith in 
the Intelligence behind all manifes- 
tation deepens through your daily 
contact with it. Don't wait for 
great occasions. Don't wait until 
you are in serious difficulties. 
Seek guidance always, even when you 
think you know what to do. When you 
think you know, it is always better 
to ask the Inner Teacher whether or 
not your own view is correct. You 
will be surprised, at first, to find 
that this procedure .often gives you 
a second thought far better than 
your first opinion. 

One of the commonest reasons for 
-7- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 14 


apparent failure to demonstrate is 
that we try to * 4 go it alone. * ' By 
so doing, we slip back into the old 
error that we are living of and by 
ourselves. Thus the habit of seek- 
ing confirmation or correction from 
the Inner Teacher, the habit of ask- 
ing simply, 1 * A m I right about 
this?*' and then acting in accord 
with the decision of the Inner 
Voice, even when it says is 
a habit which makes for success in 
all sorts of demonstration. (Keys 5, 
8 , 11 ) 

When the two modes of personal 
consciousness are balanced in rela- 
tion to each other, and in relation 
to superconsciousness , by the estab- 
lishment of such habits as have been 
outlined, the automatic response of 
the subhuman levels of the Life- 
power's activity produces the result 
pictured by the sphinx in Key 10. 
The everchanging flow of circumstance 
then seems to go through one's field 
of personal experience. No longer 
is one swept away by this or that 
condition. This is difficult to de- 
scribe; but though the wheel turns, 
one does not turn with it. At the 
same time, its turning works out for 
good. (Keys 6, 8, 10. ) 

Similarly, our vivid awareness 
that human personality is but a ve- 
hicle for the cosmic life has a 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 14 


tremendous transforming power at 
subconscious levels. For what is 
shown in Key 7 is, in one respect, 
the idea that the true Self is, even 
now, all that our hearts desire. It 
therefore has now, and does now, all 


that we 

desire 

to have 

and do. 


When i 

this idea takes 

full pos 

ses- 

sion of 

us , it 

becomes 

evident 

that 

no thing 

whatever in n 

ature ca 

n be 

inimical 

. to us. 

Note that this 

idea 

be come s 

ev ident to us 

at the 

con- 

s c ious 

level 

of our 

thought 

and 

speech. 

and is 

automat 

ically trans - 

mi t ted 

to subc 

onsc ious 

ness, by 

way 

of the 

me mo ry 

r ecord . 

(Keys 7 

, 8, 

9. ) 






Thus it is that right reasoning 
concerning the place of personality, 
and its relation to the supercon- 
scious life, results in the awaken- 
ing of the inner hearing which puts 
us in touch with the Hierophant. 
When we measure correctly our place 
in the cosmic order, the right rea- 
soning is transmitted to subcon- 
sciousness, and the latter responds 
to it with changes in the organism, 
which enable us to become aware of 
higher levels of our inner being. 
Then we hear internally, and when we 
obey what we hear, the balance and 
harmony of the conscious and subcon- 
scious, in relation to the supercon- 
scious life above the level of human 


- 9 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 14 


personality, is established, as 
shown by the Lovers. (Keys 4, 5, 6.) 

Our awareness of the true relation 
of personality to the cosmic order 
enables us to realize that these 
personal activities are all really 
phases or aspects of a universal 
process. As we deepen our awareness 
of this truth, our faith grows, and 
we become ever more confident that 
the Divine Justice is at work in the 
utter sel f- surrender pictured by the 
Hanged Man. (Keys 10, 11, 12.) 

MEDITATIONS 

FIRST DAY: Keys 4, 8, 12. The Di- 
vine Order is established in my life 
today. All forces of subconscious- 
ness work together for my good. I 
yield myself completely to the uni- 
versal life, of which I am a reflec- 
tion. The Power that frames the 
universe is my strength , and on that 
Power I place my sole dependence . 

SECOND DAY: Keys 5, 8, 11. Every 
moment of my life is under guidance 
from above. Under this guidance, 
even those forces which appear to be 
my adversaries are really working 
for me. I am calm and confident this 
day, in the steadfast assurance that 
perfect justice is established in 
all the circumstances of my life. 
As I hear , I judge , and my judgment 
is a recognition of Eternal Justice . 

- 10 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 14 

THIRD DAY: 6, 8, 10. Through the 
reflective power of my subconscious 
mind, my whole life is filled with 
light from above. . The mighty forces 
of subconsciousness are at work to 
fulfil my heart's desire. For I 
desire nothing but the perfect mani- 
festation of the universal order 
through my life. 1 am free from 
delusions of false knowledge, strong 
through the perfect co-ordination of 
all the forces of my subconscious- 
ness, successful because my life is 
a conscious expression of the uni- 
versal life, which cannot fail . 

FOURTH DAY: 7, 8, 10. The Master 
of the universe directs my thoughts 
and words to deeds of victory. I 
have dominion over every force in 
nature. For I am essentially one 
with the Single Identity which gov- 
erns all. The Presence of the Most 
High dwells within me. The Power of 
the Almighty works through me. I 
rejoice that even now I have my 
hear t 's des ire . 

FIFTH DAY: 4, 5, 6. I open myself 
to the influx of the Divine Reason 
which sets all things in right rela- 
tionships. I listen always for the 
Inner Voice that teaches me the 
secrets of liberation. My subcon- 
sciousness is filled with the light 
of spiritual understanding. The 
heavenly vision is mine , the in - 

- 11 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 14 


s true t ion of Divine Wisdotn guides my 
thoughts and words . The illumina- 
tion of Pure Spirit shows me the 
glory of the Perfect Law, this day. 

SIXTH DAY: 10, 11, 12. Not the 

least act, or word, or thought of 
mine but has its cosmic signifi- 
cance. Every detail of my experi- 
ence is an adjustment of rr.y person- 
ality for the more perfect expression 
of the power of the One Life. On 
that Life I depend utterly . The One 
Spirit works through me to establish 
perfect justice, and to release me 
from every form of bondage. 


-3.2- 


TAROT 


H- 


f A * 

n / — n x i 

1 s~\ . 

IJOrJ 


INTER? JO 

from the height 

P| yc'f k^y 3 5q-rnm a.+ »'o*T! Z1 - '~r 

' 4 i O nvedncn^ ojT ca<<J ^^ j , rc ^ er\^d 6 y 

S<tm ™±{'iDn _____ - — — — — / 

Avv i> cosmic vjorirfnf fr^w g 0 - ^ 

3>a 1C. i ' « 'V I X \ X v V ' * - ' ' - V 

-/ *-*■ r^crn> _ , 

I j ^ v3n«r^i*s$ — ■ ~ ‘ ^ 

:-••*<>*- 4 ti^mH Si)«r/+ arc ©ar> 

^rnm^iinte o |»‘r^t fc*©arc«? - - — * ^ J 

Corv*aii oar ifnord he* - dsfc ^or iny/rqc'Kcn, iiSfe-tf 

«* j>ccttr>£ to* heir - ~ - — ~ •— ~ j -*/ 

*• wnan.Ti’ijs thrq vutvlcK Evje.-jcmjeir' fiivfcrs oar /t^t. 

*•£**:> C \&4 >^ ^<4p^on.Sci6Us rrbCrvd - ^ ^ • ~ ^ 

Ku r*6 V,„| fnacarse «£ E •* fu y *h*», t* KmsW 

<* »u. l*. ruk DVtr ' 11 _ . . . _ _ _ 

A fWvf ho !i»m»xe n « anJ trin stance 

A., -i,..*,™,, ««■;,(« Src co ^ roll(J H ^V&iSftr 6 

Sr Aft.> - di\«4^> <ar«.- • ' 

Hbc»*SQ,,jti 5 n*-SS is lie e.K«i>nfc| VKr<( vuhicS^ 


- -'•¥-5 
jr-6 .7 


. . cik, j.rf 

>a^erconit. lo a»ness xettfej car Constfans -mirij ‘ j? \ 

V- W «iU+ W- r * fuUr/tf - ilfi’nf ctMntl? 

i redU2.«lt»* ''Pfcffmie S|»Ifxt l>«.W ^r«sfc n i dW,dyS w«thl 
WdrkJng *> n; n £* A|,«ut hO.feWr^-frtdqKju/ r»5«^. 


in 


In 46 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 15 
LIGHT FROM THE HEIGHT 

THE TABLEAU for this lesson is: 

6 13 6 

7 9 11 

12 5 10 

You have probably noticed that the 
summation of these magic squares 
increases by 3. Thus the tableau 
given in Lesson 10, arranged in mag- 
ic form, adds to 12; that in Lesson 
11, to 15; that in Lesson. 1§, to 18; 
that in Lesson 1§, to 21; and that 
in Lesson 14, to 24; with the summa- 
tion for this lesson being 27. 

When the constant summation of a 
magic square is a number which ap- 
pears on a Tarot Key, we take that 
Key as representing the main idea 
symbolized by the square. When the 
summation is greater than 21, as 24, 
27, or 30, we add together the 
digits of that number, and the re- 
sulting number is that of the Tarot 
Key we take as symbolizing the main 
idea of the whole square. 

Thus 24, the constant summation of 
the square given in Lesson 14, gives 
6 as the sum of its 'digits, and Key 
6 represents the main idea of that 
square. In this lesson, the sum of 
the digits of 27 is 9, and the ninth 

- 1 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 15 


Key symbolizes the main idea behind 
the doctrine of this lesson. 


Your studies in TAROT FUNDAMENTALS 
have taught you that Yod ('), the 
letter signifying the open hand of 
man, is the clue to all meanings of 
the Hermit, Among those meanings is 
this : 


All the actions of man, all the 
works of human hands, are really 
expressions of the power of the One 
Identity, We do nothing of our own 
power, because in truth we have no 
power of our own. No power belongs 
to us. We are agencies for the dis- 
tribution of the limitless spiritual 
energy of the universe. 


Our personal energies are governed 
by the Law of Response. We do not 
act of ourselves. We react to im- 
pulses rising from the depths of 
subconsciousness. In Key 9, the 
higher impulses of the Spirit are 
represented by the light in the Her- 
mit * s lantern. 

The greater number of human beings 
leave the power of Spirit out of 
their reckoning. Supposing them- 
selves to be operating, so to say, 
by their own energies, they limit 
their ideas of the power at their 
disposal to the forces of their own 
bodies, and the resources of their 
visible possessions. They leave en- 


- 2 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 15 


tirely out of account the most im- 
portant part of human equipment, the 
real presence of Infinite Spirit, enr 
shrined in the temple of human 
personality* Because the Infinite 
Spirit actually dwells within us, 
every human being has all the lim- 
itless resources of that Spirit to 
draw on. 

The first of these resources is the 
omniscience of the Life-power. The 
Spirit dwelling within us knows 
everything. For it there are no 
problems, no veils of ignorance and 
darkness. Yet one of the commonest 
assertions of the average human 
being is, 4< I don't know . 9 * Lack of 
knowledge of what to do, of how to 
meet an emergency, or where means 
are to be found to carry out some 
under taking- - al 1 such forms of ig- 
norance are purely personal deficien- 
cies. 

We can overcome them when we real- 
ize that specific knowledge adequate 
for our every need is always at our 
disposal, whenever we put ourselves 
in a position to receive instruction 
from the Inner Voice. As usual with 
the most important things in our 
lives, the process is simple. We 
need only confess our ignorance, and 
listen for instruction, maintaining 
the mental attitude of confident 
expectation that our listening will 

- 3 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 15 

enable us to hear the right answer. 

Here the Law of Response is clear- 
ly at work. Our listening is really 
a conscious reaction to our knowl- 
edge that there is a Voice to in- 
struct us. ‘‘And thine ears shall 
hear a word behind thee, saying, 
This is the way, walk ye in it.'' 
(Isaiah 30:21.) For the Wayshower 
holds always his light on high to 
illumine our path, and his Voice is 
ever ready with wise counsel for 
those who obey the precepts of his 
instruction. This is the way which 
leads, through the full fruition of 
our inherent possibilities, to re- 
lease, even from the bondage of 
death. (Keys 5, 9, 13*) 

Remember, the power of Infinite 
Spirit enters your life through two 
channels. These are the activities 
of your conscious and subconscious 
minds. Your conscious thinking, 
feeling, planning and desiring are 
as truly particular expressions of 
the Life-power as are the wonderful 
resources of your subconsciousness. 
The Life-power is the energy ex- 
pressed in all your voluntary action 
just as truly as it is the source of 
your involuntary activities. Your 
subconsciousness is the channel 
through which you make contact with 
the superconscious levels of the 
Life- power r s activity. 

-4- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 15 


Your conscious mind cannot bear 
the dazzling light of superconscious 
mental activity, but must receive 
that light in a form tempered and 
modified by its passage through sub- 
consciousness. Yet it is only when 
you have released subconsciousness 
from being dominated by the con- 
scious mind that you get the best 
results. This is the removal of the 
curse of Eve, to whom it was said,: 
,4 Thy desire shall be to thy hus- 
band, and he shall rule over thee.* 1 

The curse, however, is not removed 
by any process designed to let sub- 
consciousness dominate self-con- 
sciousness. Not a few plausible 
theories have been advanced to the 
effect that all human difficulties are 
due to restrictions put upon the 
free play of subconsciousness. We 
hear much talk about the evils of 
inhibitions put upon subconscious- 
ness by the self-conscious mind; but 
the fact is that, but for this power 
of inhibition we should all be mad* 
Subconsciousness is incompetent to 
act as the directing agency in human 
life, but it is able to act as a 
channel through which the actual di- 
rective power may be brought to bear 
on us. To take advantage of this, 
we need only to say to subconscious- 
ness something like this: 

' 1 I recognize your function as 

- 5 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 15 


agent for the influx of the limitless 
resources of superconsciousness into 
my personal life. I renounce all 
dominance over your activities, and 
turn over your entire operation to 
the guidance of Infinite Spirit. 
Henceforth you shall not be subject 
to me, nor to my partial knowledge 
of the Way of Life. From now on, 
you shall be an open channel through 
which the limitless potencies of the 
Life-power shall flow into the field 
of my personal consciousness. You 
are under the Life-power's all-wise 
direction. You reject all sugges- 
tions of error which may result from 
my partial knowledge. ' ' 

To say this is really to put one's 
whole existence at the disposal of 
the Universal Life, It is to sur- 
render completely and confidently 
every detail of one's affairs to the 
wise guidance of Universal Being. 
(Keys 6, 9, 12.) 

There are two ways of looking at 
Infinite Spirit. One is expressed by 
the noun immanence , and is repre- 
sented by Key 7, which shows Infinite 
Spirit as the ever-victorious rider 
in the vehicle of human personality. 
The other is expressed by the noun 
transcendence, and is symbolized by 
Key 9, which shows Infinite Spirit as 
a power dwelling far above the level 
of human personality. Yet these two 

- 6 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 15 

ideas are not really exclusive, the 
one of the other* The Life-power is 
above and beyond all we know or ex- 
perience at the personal level. Its 
presence fills the entire universe* 
There is nowhere that it is not* 
There is no manifestation of energy 
which is not dependent on it. 

Yet this very quality of omnipres- 
ence makes the immanence of Spirit 
inevitable. Since there is nowhere 
that it is not, the consequence is 
that it must be here . The Master of 
our destinies is with us always. 

Thus all the resources of the In- 
finite are truly at hand for every 
one of us, and at all times. And 
since we have already seen that sub- 
consciousness is the channel by 
means of which the powers of Spirit 
enter the field of human personality, 
it follows that subconsciousness is 
the means whereby circumstances are 
now perfectly adjusted. All appear- 
ances of injustice and unbalance are 
due to our imperfect personal knowl- 
edge. 

Relatively, of course, there are 
what we call maladjustments, such as 
poverty, misery, or ill-health. 
Ageless Wisdom declares that all 
these painful limitations are edu- 
cative. Pain prods us into search 
for release from suffering. As Henry 

- 8 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 15 

Wood used to say, ‘‘Pain is friend- 
ly,'* Thus, even when we are not 
yet sufficiently skilled in our ap- 
plication of the laws of life to be 
surrounded by the outward evidences 
of success, it is profitable to use 
our statement: ‘‘I recognize the 
manifestation of the undeviating 
Justice in all the circumstances of 
my life.'' (Keys 7, 9, 11*) 

Ageless Wisdom declares also that 
all subhuman phases of the Life- 
power's activity are always under 
the control of the human manifesta- 
tions of subconsciousness. We do 
not have to bring them under con- 
trol. They are continually under 
control. The responses of subhuman 
levels always reflect our subcon- 
scious mental states. They cannot 

do otherwise. Thus,. even when they 
seem to be most adverse to us and to 
our aspirations, they are simply re- 
sponding to the actual spates of our 
own consciousness. 

If we change our mental states, 
the responses will also change. 
Hence, from the moment we begin to 
realize that our lives are under the 
guidance of Infinite Spirit, all 
those subhuman phases of life- 
expression which constitute our en- 
vironment will begin to reflect this 
realization. It will appear to our- 
selves and others that things have 

- 8 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 15 


begun to work for us instead of 
against us. What really occurs is 
that we have identified ourselves 
with the integrative or uprbuilding 
phases of the Life-power's action. 
We go with the current of the Life- 
power, instead of against it. By 
the reversal of our mental attitude, 
we experience what seems to be a 
reversal of conditions. In reality, 
all the sequences of the Life- 
power's manifestation move on just 
as they did before, because ‘‘with 
Him there is no variableness, nei- 
ther shadow of turning.'' The 
change is in ourselves. (Keys 8, 9, 
10 . ) 

The whole matter depends on our 
establishing the habit of listening 
expectantly to the Inner Voice. 
That Voice is not loud. It is a 
4< still, small voice,'' so that we 
mu s t listen attentively before we 
can hear it. We must bear always in 
mind the fact that harmony between 
the conscious and subconscious ele- 
ments of our personality is brought 
about by releasing subcons ciousness 
from domination by our limited self- 
conscious knowledge. This release 
is effected by deliberately surren- 
dering ourselves to the direction of 
Universal Spirit. We must practice 
thinking of that Spirit as an im- 
mediate presence in our lives, until 

- 9 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 15 


practice has made the thought second 
nature. We shall then be always 
responsive to guidance by the One 
Identity, and our daily experience 
will be a demonstration of the power 
of that One Spirit to turn all 
things to beautiful results. (Keys 

5, 6, 7.) 

Through such practice we accustom 
ourselves to think of subconscious- 
ness as the agency whereby all con- 
ditions of our lives are so adjusted 
as to bring a maximum of good into 
expression. As we become more and 
more habituated to this new mental 
attitude, we find that even the least 
details of our personal activity are 
included in the operation of the 
Law. Nothing is too small for the 
Life-power to take care of, nor is 
anytHin^g too great for it to accom- 
plish, Even the transformation of 
our bodies, so that our brains may 
register the finer types of experi- 
ence which release us from bondage 
to the idea of death is included in 
the operation of the Law. Subtle 
changes in function and structure 
are brought about, so that we become 
consciously ware of what may be 
called octaves of vibraticn beyond 
the range of ordinary human experi- 
ence. We can learn experimentally 
that we are not limited by our bod- 
ies to the extent that we seem to 


- 10 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 15 


be. When this knowledge has been 
gained, the last enemy has been 
overcome. (Keys 11, 12, 13.) 

MEDITATIONS 

FIRST DAY: Keys 5, 9, 13. In- 
finite Spirit has no problems. It 
sees clearly just what I must do 
this day. It stimulates my imagina- 
tion to change the structure of my 
body, so that it may respond more 
easily to the impulses of the One 
Life. Instructed by the All-Knowing 
Mind, overshadowed by Omnipotence 
itself, I move on this day toward 
the goal of perfect realization . 

SECOND DAY: 6, 9, 12. My subcon- 
sciousness is an open channel, 
through which the limitless poten- 
cies of Universal Spirit are at my 
disposal. The Hand of the Eternal 
leads me. I depend utterly on the 
firm support of the One Reality. 
Conscious harmony, the certainty of 
guidance , and the firm as s urance of 
adequate support are mine now . 

THIRD DAY: 7, 9, 11. The Divine 
Self is not afar off; it is a real 
presence in my life. Yet is its 
power beyond all human limits, and 
above all human attainments. Its 
perfect Law adjusts every detail of 
my 1 i f e- expre ssion today. Closer 
than hands or feet is the One Iden- 
tity, which now IS all that I hope 

- 11 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 15 

to become, and this One Life directs 
all my actions now . 

FOURTH DAY: 8, 9, 10. Human life 
has automatic dominion over every- 
thing below it in the scale of 
evolution. Human personality is the 
agent of the Master of the universe. 
The cycles of cosmic transformation 
work with me, and for me, because I 
know this truth. Mine is the inex- 
haustible strength of limitless 
power , mine is the sure knowledge of 
the Knower of All, mine the perfec- 
tion of the universal mechanism . 

FIFTH DAY: 5, 6, 7. The Voice 
which instructs me is not loud, but 
its message is clear. Its instruc- 
tion establishes harmony between my 
conscious and subconscious minds. 
My thought and words express its 
perfect wisdom. Taught by the Di- 
vine Mind, harmonized by its heiding 
influence , my life today is a mani- 
festation of its unfailing success . 

SIXTH DAY: 11, 12, 13. The Law 
works for me, as I work with it. I 
am firm in my knowledge that the One 
Life is my perfect support. Even 
the 11 last enemy* 1 is in truth my 
friend. My faith is strengthened 
today, for I surrender all tnings to 
the One Life, and see that Life at 
work in all the changing conditions 
about me . 


- 12 - 


TAROT 

JNT£RPR£TATJOM 


- _ i 


,'OUR C 05 \yuc Uf£ 

ket( 10 as cenie,Y .Sirmmdii'in) 3-0 
L’lbUo . - . . . - _ 2 

^4 3 ^mbbl Tniin idea ^ ^Ocfr/'ne o£ <- 

{«-i5Q7\. - SuTnma-f.'o-n 

3Hfc>t6Tisc(o4S> i-mojtfete}- ^rea-ms - - - - -* J,if. 

J*rrx^iT\ di* dn - Dai«.+h — do o Y - _ _ _ - - 5 

Hrinc/jj/e <L 6r\4*ro ( a ^ i>c<j>isc#ou^e 5 s - £ 

AAedl fa-f.'o-h oir key /o .. jrefe » S e li'bera^.'on '7 

3n 4/ie 5 »n 4 i/«. 5 f- d-eiaife <^_ ^r&£» n4 j ^j.jbeneftc.?_ 

Htui 4 -_tv on t fht ^orc-es *+ vu 6 t^ are J?oT Tnere/y 

*r*enM; th«, are fjkases «J so ^ 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 16 
YOUR COSMIC LIFE 
THE TABLEAU for this week is: 


6 7 8 

9 10 11 

12 13 14 

Arranged as a magic square, adding 
to 30 in every direction it be- 
comes : 

9 14 7 

8 10 12 

13 6 11 

The constant summation of this 
magic square, being 30, indicates 
that the Tarot Keys particularly 
relating to this group are 0 and 3, 
with 0 as the source of activity, 
and 3 as the agency of its expres- 
sion. Hence one of the general 
meanings of this group, shown hv 
every row of three Keys when they 
are arranged in magic order, is that 
the Unmanifested Spirit (0) is the 
real power finding expression through 
the generation of mental imagery in 
the field of subconsciousness. 

Ageless Wisdom avoids a mistake of 
some modern systems of psychology 
which suppose subconsciousness has 
a power of its own which is merely 
an echo if earlier stages of evolu- 
tion. 


TAROT INTERPRETATION lg 

tion. What psychoanalysts term the 
libido is really the elan vital of 
undifferentiated Spirit. It is the 
pure Life-Breath, the sky-power pic- 
tured by the Fool. As you receive 
it, it comes into your field of 
awareness through subconscious chan- 
nels. Yet it is not a power of 
subconsciousness. You make contact 
with it through subconsciousness. 
Here applies the Hermetic axiom: 
''That which is above is as that 
which is below, and that which is 
below is as that which is above, for 
the performance of the miracles of 
the One Thing. ' ' 

30 reduces to |, and 3 is the num- 
ber of the Empress. Key 3 is a 
symbol of the main idea in the doc- 
trine of this lesson. This idea is 
closely connected with the meanings 
of the letter Da let h (1), corre- 
sponding to the Empress. Daleth 
means ‘‘door,'' and its significance 
as applied to your work is this: 

The activities of subconsciousness 
in the generation of mental images 
constitute, so to say, the portal 
through which you pass from your 
present states of personal experi- 
ence into those you are to realize 
in the future. 

You have entered today's set of 
experiences through this door. 
Through it you will pass into the 

- 2 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 16 


conditions of tomorrow. What you 
image today will become a pattern 
for the manifestations of days to 
come . 

That this is true is not by any 
means patent to the greater number 
of human beings. Many reject it. 
They say, ‘‘I certainly did not im- 
agine anything like the experiences 
I am having now. How, then, can you 
ask me to believe that what I im- 
agine now will make any difference in 
my actual life tomorrow?’ ' 

This would be sound criticism, 
were all mental imagery produced 
consciously. Actually, relatively 
few of your images are consciously 
shaped, unless you are exceptionally 
skilful in directing the process. 
Your subconsciousness generates 
thousands of images every day. Each 
has a measure of effect on your rela- 
tions with others, and on your cir- 
cumstances. Often they do not rise 
to the conscious level at all, but 
they make a difference, just the 
same. 

Subconsciousness, you know, is the 
dream-maker. It spins the web of 
imagery day and night. While we 
wake, we seldom notice this dream- 
process. Our attention is captured 
by the more vivid impressions of 
s ens e- experience . Nevertheless, 
subconsciousness goes right on, and 

- 3 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 16 


since many of these images affect 
other persons, both directly and 
t el epathical ly , they condition the 
way others react to us, and how they 
oppose, or aid, us in our undertak- 
ings. 


You can direct this subconscious 
activity so that it will work to 
your advantage. You manage it from 
the self-conscious level. You do 
this now. The power is already 
yours. Yet it may be you have been 
working the controls in reverse. 


Remember, your subconscious dream- 
process is an automatic response to, 
and elaboration of, your conscious 
mental attitudes. Let yourself get 
into the habit of thinking this is a 
pretty terrible world, let yourself 
think your hopes of realizing your 
heart’s desire are nothing but 
dreams,’ ’ and you plant a seed- 
thought your subconsciousness will 
elaborate into specific imagery. You 
plan for failure. 


The images may never rise into 
your field of conscious awareness. 
Yet they are being developed, and 
some of them are amazingly strong. 

Your bad dreams sometimes give you 
terrifying glimpses of the kind of 
product turned out by your subcon- 
scious image- factory . Learn how to 
direct your mental powers, and you 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 16 


will not be bothered by bad dreams. 
The seed- thoughts you plant will not 
be the kind that grows into night- 
mare shapes. 


Ageless Wisdom says the image- 
making activities of your personal 
subconsciousness are the same in 
kind, though less potent in degree, 
as those whereby the physical forms 
of the world were brought forth by 
the Universal Mind, imagination is 
thus actually the door to external 
experience.^. To trace the various 
elements of your present situation 
to their subconscious roots is dif- 
ficult, even impossible. Yet you 
will do well to remember the princi- 
ple. 


Hebrew Wisdom gives another hint 
to the same effect. It says Daleth, 
the door, is also a symbol for the 
womb. Daleth represents the matrix 
in which conditions are shaped. 
This idea is brought out by many 
details of the Tarot picture of the 
Emp ress . 

There should be nothing to disturb 
you in considering the close connec- 
tion between your subconscious 
imagery and your conscious experi- 
ence. You are not determined, as 
some have taught, by subconscious 
states over which you have no ccn^ 
trol. You do control them. You al- 
ways control them, even when you set 


- 5 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 16 


into operation the production of se- 
quences of images whose externaliza- 
tion is decidedly unfavorable to you 
and your projects. The trouble is, 
when trouble comes, that you have 
been misusing your control. Learn 
to use it aright, and trouble comes 
to an end. 

The principle of control is very 
simple. / Subconsciousness accepts 
whatever we accept at the conscious 
level of our thought^ Subconscious- 
ness cannot criticize, cannot 
repudiate, our conscious notions. 
It takes for gospel everything that 

we believe, and it elaborates what- 
ever we give it, to the last possi- 
ble deduction from the premises we 
establish by our conscious mental 
a tt i tudes . 

Because it does elaborate your 
conscious thoughts, you often ex- 
perience conditions you seem not to 
have imagined at all. This is where 
you have to guard against making 
misinterpretations of experience at 
the conscious level. You must be on 
watch, also, against falling into 
easy agreement with some other per- 
son’s ill-considered opinion. Learn 
to determine for yourself what you 
a ccept . 

This is particularly important in 
these days, when so many influences 
play upon us from the printed page, 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 16 


from motion pictures, and from the 
radio* All these media are employed 
by propagandists, in order to plant 
suggestions in the race-mind. De- 
liberate misuse of suggestion in 
order to further the purposes of 
minorities at the expense of major- 
ities is the modern adaptation of 
black magic. We see its evil re- 
sults on every hand. 

Furthermore, the multiplication of 
honest errors by print and by radio 
is almost as dangerous as malicious 
propaganda. In these days, we need 
to be prepared to make positive 
counter-sugges tions to a great num- 
ber of negative statements we hear 
and read almost every waking hour of 
our lives. 

Our counter- suggestions should be 
developments of a logical conception 
of the sort of world we actually 
live in. Key 10, the central pic- 
ture in our tableau, and central 
also in the corresponding magic 
square, is important in this connec- 
tion. It sums up symbolically the 
main aspects of a seed- thought which 
is sure to bear fruit in beneficent 
mental imagery. The person who has 
thought out, and consciously accept- 
ed, the idea represented by Key 1©, 
will, by repeated meditation on that 
idea, set going a subconscious cre- 
ative process, which will eventually 

- 7 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 16 


be the means of his liberation. 

You have has some introduction to 
this idea in the lessons of TAROT 
FUNDAMENTALS, and its various as- 
pects have been touched upon in 
preceding lessons of this series. 
The emphasis this week will fall on 
this great seed-idea, which may be 
put into words as follows: 

In the smallest details of person- 
al experience and action, the forces 
at work are not merely personal: 
they are phases also of a cosmic 
process of cyclic activity, which 
moves inevitably toward the manifes- 
tation of a beautiful result . 

Read this italicized paragraph 
several times. Be sure you grasp 
its import. Just now you may not 
feel you can give the statement your 
unqualified assent. You are not 
asked to do so. What is important 
is for you to be sure you have com- 
prehended the import of the words. 
Full demonstration of their truth 
will come later. 

As practice perfects you in demon- 



keeping distinct 


s t r a tion , 


the activities of your conscious and 
subconscious mindsj as shown in Key 
6, you will begi“n to notice that 
everything you think and say and do 
is connected with the movement of 
cycles of energy extending far be- 


- 8 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 16 


yond your present field of being. 
If you have some knowledge of as- 
trology, you will observe a regular 
ebb and flow of mental activity, cor- 
responding exactly to the transits 
of the moon and planets through your 
horoscope. If you develop the prop- 
er degree of inner sensitivity, you 
will become increasingly aware of 
definite guidance, and of communica- 
tion with the overshadowing presence 
of the angel of Key 14. 


As you come, more and more, to in- 
terpret your personal activities as 
being expressions of the One Will 
which directs the universe, you will 
see also that in a sense you are al- 
ways at the spiritual center of the 
whole system of cosmic cycles. You 
will begin to understand that your 
personal existence is a continual 
dissolution of outworn forms, to 
make room for the unfoldment of new 
and better ones. (Keys 7, 10, 13* ) 


At first, it may not be easy to 
maintain the mental attitude we have 
described, but persist in it. Re- 
mind yourself repeatedly of the real 
facts, no matter what appearances 
may be. In time, you will transfer 
the idea to subconsciousness, which 
will begin to act upon it. Then 
there will begin to grow in you a 
feeling that the most vital part of 
you remains unmoved through all the 
transformations of external 

-9- 


circum- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 16 


stances, as unmoved as the sphinx at 
the top of the Wheel of Fortune. 
More and more, you will feel that 
all details of your personal life 
are adequately supported by the cos- 
mic process. (Keys 8, 10, 12.) 

The word ‘‘Self* 1 will change in 
meaning as you grow in understand- 
ing. It will come to represent to 
you the One Identity which finds 
expression through countless person- 
alities. 

You will realize more and more 
vividly that this Self is the true 
spiritual center of the universe, 
and, at the same time, the central 
reality of your life. Your percep- 
tion that it is constantly adjusting 
and balancing the various forces at 
work within and around you will be 
reinforced by a host of the most 
definite proofs. (Keys 9, 10, 11.) 

These changes, remember, begin at 
the conscious level, with acts of 
discrimination. They consist, first 
of all, in repeated reminders 
that the personality is a vehicle 
for a cosmic energy, which energy is 
spiritual. Eventually, these repe- 
titions of correct ideas as to the 
true state of things will establish 
a new type of response at the sub- 
conscious level. Ultimately, these 
new responses will bring all the 
subhuman forces of subconsciousness 

- 10 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 16 


into harmony with the conscious 
thought. (Keys 6, 7, 8.) 

It is almost wholly a question of 
willing surrender of one's whole 
personal existence to the direction 
of the Life-power. This surrender 
is expressed in utter willingness to 
let go everything which is no longer 
of advantage to the progress of the 
Great Work in one's life. It is the 
acceptance of guidance from above, 
based on reasoned conviction that 
such guidance is always available. 
(Keys 12, 13, 14.) 

MEDIATIONS JA 

FIRST DAY: Keys 1(V 14* The 
two modes of my consciousness work 
together in perfect harmony. My 
life is a universal phenomenon, 
expressed in personal terms. It is 
directed by the same overshadowing 
Intelligence that guides the worlds 
through space. Poise and supply and 
guidance are mine this day. 

SECOND DAY: Keys 7, 10, 13. I am 
an embodiment of the Creative Word. 
Through me circulate the currents of 
the Limitless Light. They dissolve 
in me everything that has outworn 
its usefulness. The Word is in my 
heart , its vibration is the support 
of all that surrounds me, and it 
transforms everything into its own 
beautiful image. 


- 11 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 16 

THIRD DAY: Keys 8, 10, 12. Even 
now, my subconsciousness is ordering 
all forces for my good. I am living 
at the spiritual center of the uni- 
verse. I depend on it wholly for 
power and supply. The cycles of ne- 
cessity work always for my good » 

FOURTH DAY: Keys 9, 10, 11. That 
which I really am has already at- 
tained all that I hope to be. The 
whole sweep of the cosmic cycles 
moves on inevitably to the external 
manifestation of that attainment. 
Everything in the universe adjusts 
itself toward that realization. The 
One Identity works through me to 
balance all the forces of manifesto - 
t ion . 

FIFTH DAY: Keys 6, 7, 8. Con- 
sciousness and subconsciousness work 
in me to manifest the Will of the 
One Self. My personality is a con- 
secrated vehicle of the Life-power’s 
victorious progress. All forces be- 
low the level of my conscious aware- 
ness are directed toward the perfect 
realization of the Great Work. Ever 
responsive to the One Life, I share 
its victorious mastery. 

SIXTH DAY: Keys 12, 13, 14. I de- 
pend utterly on the Perfect Law. I 
let go all that binds me to the 
past. I set my feet firmly on the 
path which leads to the heights of 
Self-realization. I am utterly 
free, for I do nothing of myself. 




Pivo^f II Sam ttkeKoti 93 



TK£ SfCREr OF B/thAHCE 


Corv'^’dt.'F ^ finer School — — — — — - - 1,1, 3 

i,n,is - - - - - - - - - * *# 

"9 It } }U ' * 0. 5 

-^ilC ^ a*n {nrf - f/ieSe lessons — J 

//, /S _ - - - - . - - - - - . 5.6, 7 

Wheels vu i Fh i n wheels - - - - - - - - - - 7 

' 6 I I?, li, . . . _ - 7 ' * 

7 , », ♦ - • - - * - -------- l.f 

O, /^, /-5 * ‘ ZlL^eri'eno® /jro6| de.d/tb ^ /o 

forces of £drfh see-m -for when - - /o 

Ori'<girt o^ Tdrof- tfelye of- /oofc,' n cards /0-/| 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 17 
THE SECRET OF BALANCE 

THE TABLEAU for this week is: 

7 8 9 

10 11 12 

13 14 15 

Arranged as a magic square, adding 
to 33 in every direction, it be- 
comes : 

10 15 8 

9 11 13 

14 7 12 

Remember to lay out the Keys so as 
to give both combinations. Then 
look at them, with pencil and paper 
at hand, so that you may make im- 
mediate note of anything that may be 
suggested to you. You never can 
tell when you will tune in on the 
thought of somebody who knows a 
great deal more about Tarot than you 
do . 

After awhile, if you persevere, 
you should find yourself getting this 
mental radio from members of the 
Inner School. More and more often 
your best knowledge of Tarot will 
come to you this way. For it may be 
well to repeat that the secrets are 
never printed in books or lessons. 
They are communicated directly to 

- 1 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 17 


persons having sufficient receptiv- 
ity. The simplicity of the methods 
whereby one becomes receptive de- 
ceives many, and keeps them from 
persistent practice. Pencil and pa- 
per, or some other adequate means of 
keeping a record, are absolutely 
necessary. The impression made by 
some of these brain-waves is often 
fleeting as a dream, and passes be- 
yond recall unless one captures it 
the moment it comes. 

I Quite as valuable as the content 

of these fragments of illumination 
which you are sure to receive, if 
you make due preparacion for them, 
is the verification this practice 
will give you as to the actual ex- 



istence of the 


It 


won't be long before you will accu- 
mulate plenty of evidence that the 
source of these flashes of enlighten- 
ment is by no means within your 
personality, conscious or subcon- 
scious. 

I To describe it is not easy, but 
there is a difference between one's 
own thought and what is received 
telepathically, distinct as the dif- 
ference between the sound of one's 
own voice and that of another per- 
son.]] After you have begun to 
receive these mental radiograms, it 
will be evident also that they come 
from different types of mentality, 


- 2 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 17 


which may easily be distingui shed , 
one from another, 

As this is written, we know only 
too well that by no means every 
reader of these pages will enjoy 
this contact with the Inner School, 
Experience has shown that no matter 
how we insist on the importance of 
following strictly the simple direc- 
tions for using Tarot, it is the 
exceptional student who does exactly 
what he is told. 

Many students fail to realize 
that these instructions are by no 
means one man's opinions, but are, 
instead, the concentrated essence of 
research and experimentation which 
have been carried on for centuries, 
A good many persons seem to feel 
that, while there may be something 
interesting and valuable in these 
lessons, they know better about 
Tarot and what to do with it than we 
do. We seek to coerce no person's 
belief or actions, but it may do 
some good to say once more that 
these pages do not contain our per- 
sonal views, particularly about 
methods and practice. We are simply 
transmitting to you something we 
have received, which we have tested 
carefully. We know, therefore, that 




wo rk , 


In the first group of three Keys to 


- 3 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 17 


be considered in this week's tableau 
notice first the Warrior (7) and then 
the Adversary (15) f with Justice 
(11) between them. Observe that the 
Warrior is not fighting, and that the 
sphinxes of his car are at rest. In 
explaining the symbolism of Key 15, 
we have somewhere pointed out that 
the chains round the necks of the 
two figures at the bottom of the pic- 
ture would not hold them a moment, 
if only they knew enough to lift the 
loops over their heads; and in con- 
nection with the same Key you have 
been reminded again and again that 
nowhere in the universe is there 
really anything like the Devil. 
There are no problems for your true 
Self, the Warrior in the chariot, 
nor is there any Adversary. The 
symbol'-pf Justice, where the scales 
are perfectly balanced, shows the 
reason for what we have just said. 
Since the forces of the universe are 
always in perfect equilibrium, there 
is really no antagonism anywhere, 
except in appearance, as man mis- 
judges appearance. Wise men see 
this. Others try to reform the 
world. 

In the next group of three (8, 11, 
14), the meaning of Key 8 may be 
taken as a reference to this sen- 
tence of The Emerald Tablet : * ‘This 
is the strong force of all forces, 

- 4 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 17 


overcoming every subtle, and pene- 
trating every solid thing.' 4 That 
very force is now at work bringing 
about the realization of your 
heart's desire. Never mind any ap- 
pearance to the contrary. 

One reason you are studying these 
lessons is that you have reached the 
point in your spiritual development 
where you are about to be released 
from the hypnotic spell cast by 
appearances. The force at work 
through you is adequate to overcome 
the subtlest of your seeming adver- 
saries, and penetrating enough to 
reach you through every apparent 
obstacle. 

You are nearing the time when you 
will see that this force, right now, 
is being employed to make precisely 
those fine adjustments which are re- 
quired in order to bring you to your 
true goal in life. Before long, you 
should begin to understand that your 
whole life story is really a mental 
conception of the Author of All. 

/Then it will be evident that what 
you have hitherto supposed to be 
something you wanted for yourself is 
really something the Life-power 
wants for you, and is working 
tli rough you to bring into actual, 
tangible mani xes tat ion . 

Ageless Wisdom is explicit in de- 

- 5 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 17 


daring the whole universe to be an 
expression of Conscious Energy. It 
follows that the One Intelligence 
sees the whole of its manifestation, 
and every detail thereof. Time does 
not bind it as we are bound, so long 
as we are limited by the sense of 
succession which is characteristic 
of the intellectual level of our 
self-consciousness. As Abbe Dimnet 
says, in What We Live By: 

‘ 4 Pure Spirit, God, all the time 
sees the whole picture of which we 
see only fragments. The Universe, 
even the endless succession of uni- 
verses which astronomy has sometimes 
inferred from the conservation of 
energy, is present to Him as our 
consciousness of ourselves is pres- 
ent to us . 9 9 

Among the details of this picture 
which must be always present to the 
Cosmic Intelligence are included the 
thoughts and desires of every human 
being. The power of that One Iden- 
tity is all the power there is, and 
the whole of that power is always 
related to the particular manifesta- 
tions which constitute your person- 
ality. Thus your personal life is 
an aspect of the perpetual process 
of the Life-power's sel f- ad justment . 
In the course of that adjustment, 
there is a continual dissolution of 


- 6 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 17 


forms, a continuous series of struc- 
tural disintegrations, but this 
eternal transition from one form to 
another expresses a power which it- 
self suffers no change in essence. 
No form or condition, therefore, has 
power to arrest your progress, be- 
cause the real YOU is essentially 
identical with the One Reality. 
(Keys 9, 11 , 13 • ) 

Manifestation is often pictured as 
a system of wheels. We find this 
image in Ezekiel. It is given in 
the Bha gav ad-Git a , It is repeated 
again and again in the texts of 
Buddhism. 

4 ‘Wheels within wheels , 99 Ezekiel 
says, intimating an intricate corre- 
lation of cycles, like that which is 
suggested by the symbolism of Key 
10. He also takes care to convey 
the idea that this system is not 
mere mechanism, for he says 1 4 the 
wheels were full of eyes.’’ The 
Great Rota is an intelligent expres- 
sion of life; and this idea of 
Ezekiel's is shared by other seers 
who use the wheel symbol in their 
writings and diagrams. 

In the midst of all the whirling, 
moreover, there is balance. Every 
degree that the wheel turns upward 
on one side is compensated by an 
equal degree of descent on the oth- 

- 7 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 17 


er. At the center there is absolute 
stillness. Thus he who finds the 
CENTER, the abode of Pure Spirit, in 
himself, is freed from all necessity 
for action, which is brought to an 
end for him, so that he becomes like 
a pendulum which has ceased its mo- 
tion. Thus it is forever true that 
the wise man thinketh, 41 I am doing 
nothing . ' 9 (Keys 10, 11, 12.) 

The practical application of Tarot 
is intended to effect a change in the 
student's interpretation of the 
meaning of experience. Just as as- 
tronomy has corrected our notions of 
the movements of the heavenly bod- 
ies, reversing beliefs formerly held 
by all mankind, so does Ageless Wis- 
dom correct our opinion of the 
nature of our personal activities. 
The uninitiated regard personal ac- 
tion as being self-originated; the 
wise think of it as being simply the 
localized expression of universal 
forces, flowing into and through the 
field of personality, like the river 
pictured in Key 7. 

Most persons look upon the forces 
surrounding them as being alien and 
dangerous, like the lion in Key 8. 
Those who have been properly taught 
understand that we continually exert 
control over all these forces, which 
respond automatically to our con- 

- 8 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 17 


scious attitudes, even when we apply 
that control so as to bring us pain- 
ful (and therefore educative) exper- 
iences. The greater number of human 
beings look on the goal of attain- 
ment as being something afar off, in 
the future, and bound up with 
environmental conditions. The in- 
structed few see that the true goal 

> 'T** 

is a clear realization of the On 
Identity! which, even now, is closer 
at hand than anything else. This is 
all that anyone ever hopes to be, 
has all that anyone ever hopes to 
have, and does all that anyone ever 
hopes to do. (Keys 7, 8, 9.) 

Included in the complete reversal 
of interpretation which results from 
esoteric training is utter freedom 
from the fear of death, and from the 
repudiation of the fact of physical 
dissolution; because the necessity 
for the latter is understood, and a 
higher type of experience has con- 
vinced the student, not only that 
his personality will survive the 
death of his physical body, but also 
that his personality is independent 
of that body, even during the time 
the latter continues to exist. 

This is real knowledge, gained by 
experiment, and subjected to tests 
as searching as those applied to any 
other type of scientific investiga- 

- 9 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 17 


tion. In the course of the experi- 
ments many difficult problems are met 
and solved, one by one* Consequent- 
ly the conviction grows in the mind 
of the student that whenever the 
forces of the universe present him a 
forbidding and adverse appearance, 
it is because he has not yet learned 
the true meaning of that appearance; 
not because there is anywhere in the 
universe a power inherently inimical 
to himself and his welfare. (Keys 13, 
14, 15.) 

Tarot, let us say again, was in- 
vented by wise men to make others 
wise as themselves. These Keys are 

symbolic summary of the under- 
standing of Those Who Know. By 
looking daily at these pictures, you 
impress your subconsciousness with a 
condensed statement of the attitude 
toward life and its problems which 
enables adepts to perform their 
mighty works. 

An adept is not a person who has 
acquired unusual power. He is a 
person who has achieved an unusual 
point-of-view. The masses accept 
the universe at its face value. An 
adept discerns what is really the 
true state of things* 

Use Tarot as these lessons are 
teaching you how to use it, and you 
will saturate your subconsciousness 

- 10 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 17 


with the wisdom of the Inner Circle 
of Those Who Know. Your subcon- 
sciousness will respond automatical- 
ly to this treatment. First it will 
make you see things differently, and 
produce a change in your interpreta- 
tions and in your emotional atti- 
tudes. Ultimately, it will build 
you a new kind of organism, through 
which the forces of the universe may 
be expressed in works of power. 

MEDITATIONS 

FIRST DAY: 7, 11, 15. My real 
Self has no problems. My faith is 
steadfast in this conviction. The 
mask of the Adversary hides the face 
of the Beloved. I have nothing to 
fight, for perfect adjustment even 
now overcomes every seeming evil . 

SECOND DAY: 8, 11, 14. The strong 
force of all forces is at work in 
me. It cuts every knot of diffi- 
culty. It is the free power of my 
true Self. I am filled with power, 
adequate to my every need, and I 
face this day as an opportunity to 
prove the truth on which my faith is 
founded . 

THIRD DAY: 9, 1J 13. Pure Spir- 
it, my true Self, sees everything as 
it is. It remains poised in the 
midst of action. It dissolves every 
limitation which might retard my 
eternal progress. My life is in the 

- 11 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 17 


Hand of the Eternal , and its perfect 
Justice looses all my bonds . 

FOURTH DAY: 10, 11, 12. The Cen- 
ter of the cosmic whirlings is the 
Center, also, of my personal ex- 
istence. That Center is in perfect 
equilibrium. I am at rest as I rest 
in it. The wheel of manifestation 
has stillness at its center, and 
that stillness is in my heart of 
hearts . 

FIFTH DAY: 7, 8, 9. Ageless Wis- 
dom corrects all my false notions 
about thje meaning of my life. I 
live by the power of the whole uni- 
verse. My goal is knowledge of the 
One Identity. My true Self masters 
all the forces of nature now, and 
stands alone and unmoved in the 
midst of all appearances of struggle 
and effort . 

SIXTH DAY: 13, 14, 15. Death is 
the name given by ignorance to 
change in form. I am in the midst 
of an experiment which releases me 
from that ignorance. The problems I 
face are but veils for the one beau- 
tiful Truth. I pass on from stage 
to stage of the Great Work which 
dissolves every appearance of evil 
and restriction . 


- 12 - 


TAROT 


JMT£RPR£TATJOjN 

T+f J£ TRUt 50 RRf NO£R 
_.ON\m*ri 0 N 3 vo - l<BY 12. CENTER 

rtv.tuU Coniei'o<tfcT»*«s- 3 . 1 CohSt To uih 

T ;‘ S A\— ut« B,^ n , r . a i». M 

T" b 1 * cl ,o h i •>«".» nesa 

HUTn * n Sgb«.oTr,5<*.o»3HeSS >5 ll wi . 3 suUeci 4 . , , 

*>, h. L-ZI^Z 


-of fee 


o 4 p 

& * 


errors - 


moof jra.fj: u / thoY OJ, Mih/olr L,*, ca n J we „ 
blf He Heriyili 



TAROT INTERPRETATION 18 
THE TRUE SURRENDER 

THE TABLEAU for this week is: 

8 9 10 
11 12 13 
14 15 16 

The magic square is: 

11 16 9 
10 12 14 
15 8 13 

In both arrangements, Key lg, the 
Hanged Man, is at the center. The 
constant summation of the magic 
square is 36- It shows responsive- 
ness (Key 9ft, expressing the power 
of discrimination (Key 6), through 
creative imagination (Key §). Key 
12 represents the means for balanc- 
ing the forces symbolized by these 
Keys. Key 9 shows the outcome. 

Keep in mind this week the various 
complementary opposites shown in the 
tableau. Key 12 represents the 
agency through which are carried the 
actions and reactions of 8 and 16, 
9 and 15, 10 and 14, 11 and 1|. Key 
11 balances Keys 8 and 14* Key 13 
is the equilibrating unit between 
Keys 10 and <6. Study each of these 
groups of three Keys* and record in 
youF notebook what they suggest. 

- 1 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 18 


One reason for dealing with the 
Tarot Keys as we are doing in these 
lessons is to show how the forces 
they represent act and react on one 
another. No single force can be 
wholly isolated. Thus the very name 
TAROT is made from the letters of 
the Latin Rota, a wheel. Every part 
of a wheel is in relation with every 
other part. All the parts move to- 
gether. The force symbolized by any 
one Tarot Key is correlated with the 
forces represented by all the oth- 
ers. Thus the make-up of Tarot 
brings home to us the fact that all 
the activities of our lives are as- 
pects of a fundamental unity. 

L-H i s higher spiritual conscious- 
ness enables man to comprehend the 
Whole. His intellectual conscious- 
ness discerns only the partsT] The 
divisions and separations are m his 
mind, not in the true nature of 
Reality. No lesson of Ageless Wis- 
dom is more important than this. It 
serves to correct a whole brood of 
errors. 

The mode of consciousness attrib- 
uted to Key 8 has a long name: The 
Intelligence of the Secret of all 
Spiritual Activities. First of all, 
it means that there are no unspiri- 
tual activities. Everything in your 
experience expresses the power of 
the Life-Breath. The secret pic- 

- 2 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 18 

tured by Key 8 is thati^the subhuman 
expressions of this Life-Breath are 
always subject to control by human 
subconsciousness^] This truth, which 
these lessons have now made familiar 
to you, is of paramount importance 
to every practical occultist. It 
will enable you to utilize an un- 
limited supply of energy. It is the 
secret of power. 

As a rule, the conscious mind 
learns this truth from a teacher. 
Very gifted observers learn it by 
watching the course of nature. 
Once perceived, this truth becomes 
a new foundation for our interpreta- 
tions of experience. Taken in con- 
junction with another truth which 
modern psychology has definitely 
e s t abl i shed- £the truth that human 
subconsciousness is always amenable 
to control by suggestions originat- 
ing in the conscious min dj| - this 
makes evident the absolute subordin- 
a cy of the subhuman levels of the 
Life-powers activity. Thus we come 
to understand that our work begins 
in the conscious mind, and h as to do 
with our w ays of i nterpreting exper- 
i ence. 

There follows naturally the per- 
ception symbolized by Key 12. We 
come to see that the way to secure 
results opposite to those we find re- 
strictive and painful is to reverse 

-3- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 18 


our conscious attitude toward life, 
we can see easily enough that what 
most persons think is wrong. This 
makes it evident that those excep- 
tional persons who astound us by 
their mastery of nature owe their 
ability to an exceptional mental 
attitude. Such persons invariably 
assure us that they accept the idea 
represented by the Hanged Man. To 
some extent their statements vary, 
but the gist of their doctrine is 
this: 1 '-I have not done these 

things. They were accomplished by a 
power higher than myself, working 
through me. * 9 

The thoughts and actions of these 
persons are usually misunderstood. 
They terrify lesser minds. Often 
they are considered to be enemies of 
society. Their ideas and their 
practices are condemned, as offering 
a threat to existing institutions. 

In a sense this is true. If all 
men lived as these few live, the 
present state of Society would be 
overthrown. The existing social or- 
der (or disorder) is founded on fear 
and the delusion of separateness. 
It is a system of which the main- 
spring is organized selfishness. 
Among human beings released from the 
bondage of fear, this reign of greed 
and terror could not continue. For 
it is based on the lie that any man 

- 4 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 18 

may live for himself alone* (Keys 8, 

12, 16.) 

Ageless Wisdom says everything is 
under the supervision of a beneficent 
Universal Consciousness. It says 
the world, and all events therein, 
express the Will of a single Knower. 
It counsels us to place our whole 
dependence on this Will. They who 
are best versed in the practical 
methods of Ageless Wisdom astonish 
their contemporaries by extraordi- 
nary command of the forces of na- 
ture. They demonstrate their free- 


dom 

from bondage to circumst 

tarn 

ces . 

They 

agree that their secret 

is 

sim- 

pie. 

As Jesus put it, they 

do 

th e 

will 

of the Father. 



A 

child can grasp this idea 

and 

put 

it into operation. Yet it 

is 

too 

simple for persons caught in 

the 

web 

of delusion. Such persons poin 

t to 


the semblance of evil in the world, 
and ask how, if there be a beneficent 
Supervisor over the whole scheme, 
such conditions (which these critics 
term * ' grim realities 4 ') can exist. 
They ignore the fact that those who 
apply themselves wholeheartedly to 
living a life of surrender are in- 
variably happy and healthy, find 
their every need supplied, and truly 
enjoy themselves. 

The critics pooh-pooh t{ie esoteric 


- 5 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 18 


doctrine that their 4, grim reali- 
ties* 9 are not realities at all # but 
are, instead, waking nightmares, 
produced by a sort of hypnosis which 
affects certain levels of the race- 
mind. They themselves are victims 
of this hypnotism, and, like persons 
having a bad dream, cannot perceive 0 

that it is preposterous, from begin- 
ning to end. 

Sooner or later, even they will 
awaken to the truth. Their specious 
arguments need not disturb us. Af- 
ter all, Ageless Wisdom can cite a 
long line of conspicuously success- 
ful men and women who have said that 
their secret was the simple one of 
surrender to the guidance of the One 
Will. The critics have no such evi- 
dence to offer in support of their 
opinions.. They are defeatists. One 
logical outcome of their influence in 
the world is the sorry spectacle of 
our so-called 4 1 c i v i 1 i z a t i on . 9 9 
(Keys 9, 12, 15.) 

Grasp, or comprehension, is the 
root-idea of Key 10. The symbolism 
of this Key is based on the Hebrew 
letter Kaph (D) which represents the 
hand in the act of grasping. When 
you grasp mentally the actual sig- 
nificance of your personality, and 
its relation to the universal order, 
you can employ this knowledge as a 
means to effect your release from 

- 6 / 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 18 


bondage. Then all the forces of the 
cosmos will be ready to work for 
you. 

Many find it hard to realize that 
our states of body and circumstance 
do really depend on our comprehen- 
sion of relationships. The connec- 
tion is by no means obvious, and the 
natural man prefers the obvious. 

Yet there is a way to get beyond 
the limitations of the natural man. 
It is the way of surrender. Hence 
we find the ever- recurring theme of 
renunciation running through all the 
books of wisdom. Remember, what is 
to be renounced is a delusion- - the 
error that any human being is separ- 
ate from the beneficent order of the 
universe. When practice has made 
this renunciation a subconscious 
habit, then one becomes increas- 
ingly aware of the guidance of a 
higher Intelligence. Then the way 
to the heights of achievement and 
realization is seen to be open, and 
one begins the ascent which leads, 
at last, to perfect blending of 
personal aspiration with the Cosmic 
Will. (Keys 10, 12, 14.) 

For such surrender, faith is re- 
quired, but not blind faith, based 
on unquestioning acceptance of dog- 
ma. at is reasoned faith, growing 
out of imaginative development of 
knowledge available for anyone who 

- 7 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 18 


will master the technique of scru- 
tinizing closely what goes on in his 
environment and in his inner life. 


Lack of attention is responsible 
for our erroneous opinions. We do 
not see what we look at. Hence we 
draw false conclusions from our 
faulty observations. Then these 
false conclusions become premises, 
which subconsciousness elaborates by 
deductive reasoning into systems of 
error and defeat. If we practice 
concentration, so that we observe 
accurately, we cannot help reading 
the message of the book of nature. 


When we see what we look at, we 
store our memories with correct 
representations of reality. Then we 
make correct deductions, and the 
fruit of these is a faith nothing 
can shake. Out of that faith comes 
full surrender to the inevitable 
perfection of the cosmic process. 
As a consequence of our surrender, 
even death loses its terrors, trans- 
forms its dreadful countenance, and 
at last is overcome completely. 
(Keys 11, 12, 13.) 


We cannot too often remind you 
that subconscious response to mental 
attitudes held by self-consciousness 
is wholly automatic. Subconscious- 
ness is like a garden. If you plant 
weeds, it grows them just as vigor- 
ously as if you plant flowers. It 


- 8 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 18 


has no choice. It can offer no op- 
position. 

Thus you need never concern your- 
self with practices designed to 
overcome subconscious resistance. 
It is true that time is required to 
exhaust the consequences of former 
errors. Correct procedure, however, 
consists merely in repeating the as- 
sumption of correct mental attitudes 
again and again, until new habits 
have been formed/} It is like learn- 
ing to maintain a proper bodily 
posture. At first there are many re- 
lapses into the old wr6ng attitudes, 
but, as time passes, and effort con- 
tinues, these become less and less. 


Zjhe most fruitful thought on which 
you can dwell is symbolized by the 
Hermit.^/ It is the thought that you 
should always reckon, as part of 
your daily life, the ove rshadowing 
presence of One who knows, under- 
stands, and lights the way for your 
upward progress. Made habitual, 
this thought works subconsciously to 
bring you into harmonious adjustment 
with the sweep of the cycles of 
cosmic activity. Then you find the 
wheels within wheels of the Life- 
power's manifestation working to- 
gether to ripen to fruition the 
realization. of your aspirations. 
(Keys 8, 9, 10.) 


- 9 - 


* Oh 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 13 


Continual endeavor to purify your 
theories should he your aim. People 
are always saying: ‘‘All this sounds 
so true, so logical, when I hear it 
at a lecture, or read it in a les- 
son. But how can I, when I return 
to the world, make it work?'* 

First of all, try to keep some 
part of your consciousness from ever 
returning to the world. The truth 
of things is not to be found on 
their surfaces. Try acting as if 
these doctrines of Ageless Wisdom 
were true. Remember , thought is 
action . Let yourself be directed by 
hat Key 14 pictures as an angel, 
ause many times daily to remind 
yourself of this guidance. Nothing 
is too small to turn over to it, nor 
is anything too great. 

Try it, and you will soon find this 
out for yourself. In the course of 
every day's activities, all sojrts of 
problems arise. Remind yourself 
continually that, however ifcerri fying 
they may be, these Appearances are 
due to your ignorance of some factor 
i nvol vedr] 

The ignorance, moreover, is merely 
personal. Your real Self already 
knows the right answer. The more 
you invite its direction, the speed- 
ier will come the solution. of your 
difficulties. You will probably have 
to abandon some opinions long held. 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 18 


It may be necessary for you to 
demolish many a structure of misap- 
prehension. In due course, however, 
there will be less and less conflict. 
Keep on exercising yourself in right 
thinking. Eventually you will reap 
from your subconscious mentation a 
rich harvest of constructive real- 
izations. (Keys 14, 15, 16.) 

MEDUTATIONS 

FIRST DAY: Keys 8, 12, 16. Every 
activity of my world is a spiritual 
activity. Every particular manifes- 
tation of this activity is related 
to every other, and each depends on 
the whole. Nowhere is there any 
real separateness or isolation. The 
One Spirit is my sole support: its 
power demolishes all structures of 
delusion . 

SECOND DAY: Keys 9, 12, & My 
life and its needs are fully known 
to the One Identity. I rest calmly 
in this knowledge. I meditate on it 
daily and hourly. My way is lighted 
by the lamp of Wisdom: as I still 
the tumult of my personal thinking, 
that light shines as a sfar, to lead 
me onward . 

THIRD DAY: Keys 10, 12, l# Every 
cycle of the Life-power's manifesta- 
tion brings me nearer to my heart's 
desire. Let me be free from all 
sense of struggle. The law of per- 

- 11 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 18 


fection is now at work in all my 
members. The wheel of manifestation 
turns round the still center where I 
stand at rest, filled in mind and 
body with the power of the Eternal 
P re sene e , 

FOUR'nf DAY: Keys 11, 12, 1 % All 
waste is eliminated from my life- 
experience. I do nothing of myself. 
The Life-power is transforming me, 
moment by moment, into a more per- 
fect image of itself. Poise is mine 
this day, and peace, and I see that 
every change is for the better* 

FIFTH DAY: Keys 8, 9, 10, All the 
forces of subconsciousness are at my 
instant command. I am a direct 
channel for the Master and Super- 
visor of the universe. My place is 
truly at the very center of the 
wheel of existence. Nothing is, or 
can be my antagonist, for I am one 
with the Divine Essence at the heart 
of all things . 

SIXTH DAY: Keys 14, 15, 16, The 
path of supremacy is open before me. 
Whatever be their masks of terror, I 
fear no appearances. For I see that 
there is no separateness anywhere. 
Joyfully I accept every test, meet 
every problem confident ly, for I know 
I cannot be separat pd from the Wis- 
dom and Goodness of the Eternal * 


- 12 - 


n 


PiVD’t 13 Summation 39 

-r-t 




i^SScbi H. 

FERPerJftl. TRANSFORM AT/ON 


r&bl&cLU - /W$gic P /3 - - •- 

C on^'fau-f &4Tmnnaf-i077 39 

R<_yev*aJi^ei><8jc pY*ss<v&% fal^tdvu©| ffes^on seC9? 
bij -fhe i>|Wnt.y of CrediTve ^rna^/ndfioYt C 3 ) 

)V*et{ I 3 - fyfin^i’pil mtins -whereby -forces symbolized 

H ^ ^'>5 of opposites in fti* +<Lblc&v are bd/*»ce<£ 

We 4 l£- !>bowi^ oq^c67n« o-^ "hb»s e.<f<i f 1 brium 



•ce^ulf oj ig’TTorance *m/c fi 137.”. 


- * 







TAROT INTERPRETATION 19 
PERPETUAL TRANSFORMATION 

THE TABLEAU for this week is: 

9 10 11 

12 13 14 

15 16 17 

The magic square is: 

12 17 10 

11 13 15 

16 9 14 

In both arrangements, the central 
Key is 13, Death, The constant sum- 
mation of the magic square is 39. 
It shows reversal (Key 12),. express- 
the Law of Response (Key 91 by 
the agency of creative imagination 
(Key 3). Key 13 represents the 
principal means whereby the forces 
symbolized by the pairs of opposites 
in the tableau are balanced. Key 12 
shows the outcome of this equilibra- 
tion . 

All the meanings of this tableau 
revolve round the idea of change 
symbolized by Key 13. Remember that 
although there is a sense in which 
Key 13 does relate to the phenom- 
enon of the cessation of a particu- 
lar personal existence on the physi- 
cal plane, it refers also to many 
other deeply esoteric doctrines. 

- 1 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 19 


The saying in the Bible, that the 
last enemy to be overcome is death, 
has a direct bearing on these deeper 
meanings. 

Plainly annd briefly, the doctrine 
of Ageless Wisdom is that the actual 
processes which bring about the 
death of the human body are expres- 
sions of laws and forces which need 
only be understood in order to re- 
lease us from bondage to death. 
When we thoroughly understand what 
makes us dies, we shall learn also 
the secret of eternal life. 

It is because mankind has feared 
death, has been so terrified by it 
that few indeed have had courage to 
study death closely, that so little 
progress has been made in this im- 
portant branch of occult knowledge. 
The few who have looked death in the 
face have reaped as their reward the 
revelation of a priceless secret. 
This is what the alchemists mean by 
saying: 4 ‘Dissolution is the secret 
of the Great Work . 9 9 

So begin your study this week by 
attentive examination of Key 13, re- 
viewing whatever explanation of the 
symbols you have received in other 
texts. Give special thought to the 
rising sun. Open your inner ear to 
any suggestion which may come to you 
from the Inner School, concerning 

- 2 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 19 

the seed symbol in the upper left- 
hand corner of the picture. When 
the Keys are laid out in the tab- 
leau, this seed form seems to point 
upward toward the Hermit; but in the 
magic square it points toward the 
Hanged Man. 

In this connection, consider all 
you know about the letter Yod, to 
which the Hermit is attributed, and 
all we have said concerning the sig- 
nificance of the element of water. 
Observe, also, that the rising sun 
is really one of the stars pictured 
in Key 17. 

Again, if you will consider Keys 
10, 12, 16 and 14, as they are 

placed in the tableau, you see at 
the top a S y m bol of* the turning 
wheel of time, with the unmoved 
sphinx, symbol of the spirit of 
humanity, sitting still while the 
wheel turns. At the left is the Key 
showing human personality as the 
temporary suspension of the whirling 
forces of the universe, by the con- 
densation of those forces into a 
particular form. 

That is to say, one of the mean- 
ings of Key 12 is that personality 
is like a whirlpool. It maintains 
its identity because of farces flow- 
ing through it, and when these are 
turned in another direction, the 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 19 

whirlpool of personality disappears. 
Our apparent stability as entities 
on the physical plane is only tem- 
porary. 

If we fall into the error of sup- 
posing physical plane existence to 
be our whole being, if we let this 
error develop into the delusion that 
a human life on the physical plane 
is an isolated fact, unrelated to 
the whole sweep of cosmic manifesta- 
tion, then, inevitably, some the 
terror and destruction pictured by 
Key 16, which, in this tableau, is 
beneath Key le, Death. 

Wiser counsel, and certain types 
of experiment which are open to us, 
will overcome the delusion. Then we 
shall see that physical existence is 
but an incident in our total life 
expression, and the open way shown 
in Key 14 will take us to the 
heights of spiritual realization. 

Fundamentally, it is the energy of 
the Primal Will, symbolized by the 
light in the Hermit's lantern, which 
is at work in the various processes 
which break down the tissues of the 
human body. The breakdown of tissue 
releases this energy in various 
forms of our personal activity-- 
thinking, feeling, doing. Even a 
person apparently so inactive as a 
sage who sits motionless in profound 
meditation is, nevertheless, engaged 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 19 


in action, and one evidence of this 
is that genuine work in mental con- 
trol by concentration and meditation 
makes the body perspire freely. In- 
tense mental work of the kind lead- 
ing to direct perception of higher 
forms of reality, is work that 
breaks down cell tissue, just as 
certainly as does muscular effort. 
Perspiration is always evidence that 
the skin is eliminating fatigue poi- 
son, and fatigue poison is a conse- 
quence of the disintegration of 
cells. (Keys 9, 13, 17.) 

Look again at the Keys in this 
tableau. Notice the symbol of two 
wavy lines at the bottom of the 
wheel, just over the letter R, and, 
in this arrangement, over Key 13. 
This is an alchemical symbol for 
dissolution, but it is also the 
character used by astrologers for 
Aquarius, the zodiacal sign which is 
represented in the upper left-hand 
corner of Key 10 by the head of a 
man. The man's head is in the same 
relative position as the seed symbol 
in Key 13. This is also the place 
occupied in Key 16 by the falling 
crown . 

Man is the seed form of a state of 
1 i f e -mani f es ta t i on beyond himself . 
One error that besets him is the 
supposition that his present state 
is the crown of creation. In a 

- 5 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 19 

sense, to be sure, that which is the 
essence of human life is identical 
with the one great Reality. The 
error is in the supposition that the 
Great Work is borught to its comple- 
tion by the appearance of the 1 ‘nat- 
ural man. 9 * 

When the human race stops, so to 
say, and loses its vision of the 
Beyond, then confusion and terroe 
come. Read the Bible story of the 
Tower of Babel. You will notice 
that the desire to build a memorial 
to present glory, caused all the 
trouble. On Key 1% you will see the 
error depicted. The Tower is a sym- 
bol of a vain attempt to arrest the 
onward flow of the Life-power. It 
represents the sum-total of the 
errors growing out of the folly of 
supposing that humanity, at its 
present level of development, is the 
be-all and end-all of the creative 
p rocess. 

As most of us know it, human per- 
sonality is only a stage of that 
process. Beyond this stage lie un- 
told and unguessed glories. More 
than this, some few beings in every 
generation, grasping this truth, 
have in their own persons verified 
it, and have passed beyond the lim- 
itations which the majority suppose 
to be fixed, umalterable laws. Some 
persons know the past and the fu- 

- 6 - 


same 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 19 


ture, as well as the present. Some 
persons can read the innermost se- 
crets of the human heart. Some 
persons are not restricted to the 
one spot on earth where their physi- 
cal body happens to be. Even some 
of us f who have caught barely a 
glimpse of the tremendous possibil- 
ities of this seed form we call 
l4 Man,*' have received our own small 
but definite assurances that our 
limits are not so fixed as once we 
believed. (Keys 10, 13, 16.) 

Even exoteric dogmas have their 
germ of truth, because they are 
veils for deeper meanings. We may 
smile at the popular notion that 
death is the gate to a heaven where 
all the injustices which seem to be 
rampant on this globe will be made 
right. Yet there is a deep occult 
sense in which it is true that by 
dying we enter the heaven- world 
where evil ceases to hold us in 
bondage. Have you ever stopped to 
think that even the person who began 
to study this course of lessons is 
actually no more? To the degree 
that your occult study has brought 
you enlightenment, to that degree 
the disintegrative process symbol- 
ized by Key 13 has eliminated some 
portion of the person you were when 
you began your studies. 

- 7 - 


TARCT INTERPRETATION 19 


Problems that terrified you then 
have been solved. Difficulties have 
been overcome. You can see the 
working of justice in situations 
which formerly appeared to you to be 
unmixed evils. Your faith--an open- 
eyes, reasonable faith, enables you 
to look forward to further adjust- 
ments. 

[You have come to know that what- 
ever bondage you seem to be enduring 
is really a result of ignorance. 
You are beginning to understand that 
ignorance, as resistance of certain 
parts of your physical organism to 
the passage of the light of the 
Life-power's perfect knowledge of 
all thingsJJ Thus, by dying to the 
old personality, you are already 
glimpsing your place in the great 
cosmic order, and that place is, in 
very truth, the ‘‘heaven** where no 
unrighteousness can enter, where 
sorrow is at an end, where perfect 
justice is the unvarying rule. (Keys 

11, 13, 15.) 

Returning to the silile of the 
whirlpool as a symbol for existence 
on the physical plane, remember that 
every whirlpool is in a state of 
intense activity. Yet the working 
power behind the activity is the flow 
of the river through the whirlpool. 
So it is with human life. False 
mysticism is the refuge of deluded 

- 8 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 19 

souls who fancy that by refusing to 
engage in action they come closer to 
Reality. Such persons try to avoid 
doing what their hands find to do. 
True realization is what is pictured 

by the <i an ^ ec j t the knowledge 
that the motive power does not 

reside in the personality. 

One suspends the false notion that 
what one does is se 1 f- ori gina ted. 
True mystics, therefore, are never 
mere Quietists. Many of them are 
prodigious workers. None ever are 
shirkers. Some work with their 
brains and nerve centers, rather 
than with their hands, but just the 
same, they work. Yet in all they 
do, they are aware that their per- 
sonal activity is but a phase of the 
world process on which that activity 
depends. 

This mental attitude is especially 
favorable to the subtle changes in 
body chemistry (closely connected 
with nerve currents active in the 
area of the body governed by Scor- 
pio) which bring about, the awakening 
of the higher functions of the 
brain. As these functions become 
active, the consciousness of the 
person changes. He dies to the old 
man, and rises again into ah higher 
order of knowing which old books on 
magic call 41 The Knowledge and Con- 
versation of the Holy Guardian 
Angel. * ' 

_ Q _ 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 19 


Remember, * 1 angel * 9 means messen- 
ger. The particular angel now hav- 
ing charge of the unfoldment of your 
life may not be anything like what 
most persons imagine angels to be. 
There are angels and angels, and 
that center of the Life-power's 
expression which is the means of 
leading you higher is your particu- 
lar angel for this stage of your 
journey along the Way to Freedom. 
(Keys 12, 13, 14.) 

Remember this fundamental doctrine 
of Ageless Wisdom: All forms of 
l if e- express ion are vehicles of the 
One Identity . Behind and above your 
particular '‘guardian angel'' for 
the present moment, is the over- 
shadowing perfection of the One 
Identity. He (or, it may be, she) 
to whom is entrusted the work of su- 
pervising the present stage of your 
progress, is but a messenger and 
representative of that Supreme One. 

The journey you are making toward 
the heights is the Way of Return. 
It is the upward arc of the wheel of 
manifestation. You, and the rest of 
humanity, are like Hermanubis on the 
Wheel of Fortune. Your spiritual 
eyes are beginning to catch glimpses 
of the glorious Beyond which the 
Fool sees (hence the eyes of Kerm- 
anubis are level with the letter A, 

- 10 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 19 


or Aleph.) Your spiritual ears are 
beginning to bring you some inkling 
of the truth that your real being is 
one with the ONLY ONE. 

Your faith is being confirmed by 
experience, even as it is founded on 
reason. You do not believe blindly. 
Ageless Wisdom says to you: * ‘Come, 
let us reason together . 9 * It shows 
you relationships among the various 
phases of existence which are 
passed over by most persons. It 
sharpens you powers of observation. 
It points out the footprints of the 
Master Principle, and develops your 
creative imagination, so that you 
can see with the eye of faith what 
your physical eyes have not yet wit- 
nessed. 

On its practical side, it is en- 
abling you to make fine adjustmente 
in your thinking, and is teaching 
you how to direct your emotional 
life into better channels of ex- 
pression. All this is making you 
gradually into a new person. What 
you were is passing away. What you 
are is better than what you were. 

As your spiritual vision grows 
keener through creative imagery, you 
will come to understand that preg- 
nant saying: ‘‘Beloved, now are we 
the children of God, and although it 
has not been made manifest what 
we shall be, we know that when He 

- 11 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 19 


shall be manifested, we shall be 
like Him, for we shall see Him as He 
is." (Keys 9, 10, 11.) 

The world of natural men and women 
see Him as He is not. Because of 
this, the * 4 God ,> of exoteric theol- 
ogy is all too often more devilish 
than divine. Thus the fearful image 
of the Devil in Tarot is a picture 
of God misunderstood, or seen men- 
tally as He is not. This vision of 
terror has been conjured up by the 
collective imagination of the natu- 
ral man, who looks with dread on 
anything which seems to threaten the 
continuance of fixed states of ex- 
istence; for the natural man puts 
his trust in form, and seeks the 
perpetuation of form. Therefore He 
fears change, dreads novelty, de- 
tests difference. Conformity is his 
fetish, and when any of his fellows 

dares be different, the natural man 
will go to any length to suppress 
the innovation and get rid of the 

innovatpr. Look about you, and you 
will find many evidences that this is 

all toe prevalent, even in our sup- 
posedly more enlightened times. 

Examine closely this picture of 
the Devil. He represents all that 
does not 1 4 fi t in'* with our com- 
fortable preconceptions. But the 
Life-power will not be limited by 
our ignorance. It is always pre- 

- 12 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 19 

senting us with new appearances, 
which seem to be exceptions to our 
notions of order. Thus the natural 
man personifies these unknown activ- 
ities as the demon, and ascribes his 
failures to the malicious influence 
of the Adversary. (Keys 15, 16, 17 . ) 

MEDITATIONS 

FIRST DAY: Keys 9, 13, 17. The 
resistless energy of the Primal Will 
courses through me. It brekks down 
every obstacle to its onward move- 
ment. It opens my understanding, so 
that I perceive the beauthy of the 
Great Pattern of manifestation. The 
One Identity transforms me into its 
likeness, and opens my eyes to the 
wonders of its Perfect Law . 

SECOND DAY: Keys 10, 14, 16. I am 
ascending into a higher order of 
being. This very day is a day of 
change from the imperfections of the 
past into a closer approach to the 
Divine Reality. The ligh tning-flash 
of inspiration overthrows my mis- 
taken structures of ignorance and 
prejudice. I am an expression of 
the eternal progress and transform- 
ing power of life, which breaks down 
every prison house of ignorance . 

THIRD DAY: Keys 11, 13, 15. Mine 
is a reasoned faith. I die daily 
away from the misapprehensions of 
the past. I begin to see that evil 

- 13 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 19 

an seeming injustice are but as- 
pects of the Good, stages of the 
Life-power's unfoldment which I have 
yet to understand. I am a center of 
the power of cosmic adjustment which 
over come s and trans forms into beauty 
every appearance of evil . 

FOURTH DAY: Keys 12, 13, 14. The 
Life-power in me, and {lowing through 
me does all this. My thoughts and 
words and deeds are but phases of 
the Great Transformation. Let me be 
guided this day by that Messenger of 
Reality whose office it is to direct 
my steps alsong the Way to Freedom. 
I am calm and poised in the midst 
of all these changes, for I know 
they are transforming me into a : lore 
perfect image of the One Reality. 

FIFTH DAY: Keys 9, 10, 11. The 
One Identity watches over me. The 
cycles of necessity bring me ever 
nearer to the Inevitable Perfection. 
Am I in prison? Then I have built 
its walls myself. Reality needs no 
walls for its protection, nor will 
Truth suffer herself to be veiled. 
Seeming evil is my opportunity to 
breal down some barrier of ignor- 
ance, and find my way into the para- 
dise of things as they really are. 


- 14 - 




LESS^K^O- THE SURE SUPPORT 

«.on 37 ah 7 0 «lTmma 7 jou - ^2. C«»v{rdi /ij. 

oTrsta /id UiscriT-m rtaiton (pj bs +he consequence of 
oferstiofl of- memory c?. j thru reason G*) 

K * * 1 V ^° WS wK ** '* He real re of the fracas* - i 

Whereby vae <We/o|o d/ser.'m ;„»+,• 


M^Tnor^ <3 tfc 
W, 'H wh.'cA ,f 
c i |>rcssej. 


source whence reason dr«vu.s He Tnaferi*/ 
S fo He end +he+ Aisen'minaf.'on "*»v be 


■V. fr,i s+.to ^ the steet U„t -rnerf te ^ 


“ Cfca "f* •" M; nW „ 


g- - 


. 


»M W he ^ ^ ^ 

''“"el b T” «?* *• -fU* 


,-s 

A 

/ > 


Tiof«'dr*s - 

^ e^er.’W ^ ^ 4y 

tohd-t occwif.sm / s - - - - _ _ / x -x\ ^ 

are H ^n b<i fhose »bcy. ms >'n - .. 2 

8 


i* rowi +r»tH of deefb ^=-"- ; * -*■"/- - - - 6 

\ <1 Flf 


- - / ^ x\ 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 20 
THE SURE SUPPORT 

THE TABLEAU for this week is: 

10 11 12 

13 14 15 

16 17 18 

The magic square is: 

13 18 11 
12 14 16 

17 10 15 

In both arrangements, the central 
picture is Key 14, Temperance. The 
constant summation of the magic 
square is 42. It shows discrimina- 
tion (Key 6) as the consequence of 
the operation of memory (Key 2) 
through reason (Key 4). Thus this 
tableau emphasizes memory as the 
source whence reason draws the ma- 
terial with which it works, to the 
end that discrimination may be ex- 
pressed. Key 14 shows what is the 
real nature of the process whereby 
we develop discrimination. Key 6 
typifies the outcome of this process. 

Now, in Lesson 19 you were told 
that the ‘‘Knowledge and Conversa- 
tion of the Holy Guardian Angel'' 
might well mean your association 
with some personality a little be- 
yond you on the Way to Freedom. Yet 

- 1 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 20 


it was said also that the messenger 
who guides you on your way, no mat- 
ter how little advanced beyond you 
he may be, is, as messenger or 
guardian angel, a channel to put you 
in contact with the One Identity. 

This week you will find the emphar 
sis falling on the thought that the 
process whereby you develop discrim- 
ination through reasoning correctly 
on materials furnished by memory is 
a process due, in large measure, to 
the fact that you are acted upon by 
intelligences more highly developed 
than your own. There comes a time 
in every person’s occult progress 
when he. realizes that he himself is 
in a sense the subject of an experi- 
ment. They to whom this idea is 
repugnant make evident by that very 
repugnance that, no matter how glib- 
ly they may think and talk about 
occultism, they have yet to experi- 
ence in their own persons some of 
its fundamental verities. 

The plain truth is that none of us 
would have made any progress along 
the path of attainment had we not 
been worked upon, experimented with, 
tempered and modified by the loving 
care of other human beings whose 
training and experience qualify them 
for this work. Sometimes it is only 
after long years that this truth 
dawns on the student. 


- 2 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 20 


He may suppose himself to be a 
perfectly free agent, doing just ex- 
actly what he pleases. He may pride 
himself on his independence, on his 
perseverance, on his desire to ad- 
vance to better things. Sooner or 
later, he begins to realize that all 
along he has been under direction. 


As the years pass, he can look 
back, and see how he has been led, 
gently and lovingly, as the blind 
are led by those who care for them. 
With this realization comes a deep 
humility* and a great thankfulness. 
One sees then that the protection 
and care of the One Identity reach 
us through the channels of other 
lives. The better one knows this 
One Identity* the clearer his con- 
sciousness of relation to it, the 
more able is he to act as a director 
for those whose grasp of truth is 
not so firm as his. 


We are all at various stages of 
human development. From those above 
us we receive aid, and in some de- 
gree we are the means they employ to 
carry out their experiments. When 
we realize this truth, we shall be 
able to undertake similar experi- 
ments of our own. As Lao-tze says: 
** Imperfect men are the materials 
with which the wise man works.'* 

This work consists in a series of 
demons t rations that every human per- 

- 3 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 20 

sonaiity is a center of expression 
for the whole series of cosmic cy- 
cles. By his work with those under 
his direction, the wise man learns 
more and more concerning the Law of 
Cycles. The effect of his labors on 
those who are assigned to him makes 
them, in turn, more and more con- 
scious of the operation of the same 
law in their own lives. 

Remember, true occultism is not a 
system of beliefs. On the contrary, 
it is a science consisting of veri- 
fied and verifiable knowledge. The 
work of a practical occultist aims 
ever at the reduction of the number 
of his beliefs, and the establish- 
ment in their place of positive 
k no wl edge . 

In the main, the subject of the 
various experiments is the occult- 
ist's own organism. The great art 
of transmutation is that of the 
transformation of one’s personal 
vehicle. Step by step, it is raised 
and purified. New cells and 
groups of cells are made to func- 
tion, and, at last, the work is 
completed by the substitution of a 
deathless, spiritual body, a Mas- 
ter's body, for the corruptible, 
mortal vehicle with which he was 
born. (Keys 10, 14, 18.) 

-4- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 20 


Such transformations require fine 
adjustments, and they also demand 
faith. This faith is the imagina- 
tive development, in concrete forms 
built from mental substance, of fun- 
damental propositions or seed 
thoughts which are strictly reason- 
able, and which rest on a firm basis 
of proven and provable fact. Over 
and over again the wise books admon- 
ish us to test every proposition in 
the fires of actual experience. It 
is not to the lazy that Nature un- 
veils her beauty. (Keys 11, 14, 17.) 

One of the hardest lessons for the 
beginner on this path of practical 
occultism is what Jesus expressed 
dramatically by his doctrine of non- 
resistance. With characteristic 
Oriental exuberance of metaphor, he 
brought the principle down to the 
plane of personal relations. * * A - 
gree with thine adversary quickly, 
whilst thou art in the way with 
him. f ’ 

For untold milleniums the merely 
natural man has regarded every other 
person as a potential enemy, and has 
feared nature as an opponent. Age- 
less Wisdom denies this fallacy, and 
the progress of modern science con- 
firms the truth of the denial. Even 
exoteric laboratory research demon- 
strates by actual tests that nothing 
in nature is intrinsically inimical 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 20 

to man. Everything has its use. 
Even the deadliest poisons, rightly 
understood and applied, may be used 
by us to enhance our happiness, and 
enlarge our boundaries of control 
over circumstance. 

Yet, before we may accomplish any- 
thing, we must realize our utter 
personal dependence on the cosmic 
order. We must see that all our 
troubles result from ignorance of 
the way things really are. We must 
destroy our ancient habitations of 
error by the influx of the light of 
truth. (Keys 12, 14, 16.) 

Even death must no longer be look- 
ed upon as an evidence of the un- 
friendliness of nature. Still less 
may we regard it as the working of a 
power of spiritual evil, malignantly 
opposing the welfare of makind. By 
certain types of experiment it is 
possible to prove that the very 
forces which bring about the death 
of a human body may be so directed 
that they will, first of all, awaken 
centers in the brain which can reg- 
ister our experiences as conscious 
persons during periods when we are 
not functioning on the physical 
plane. This knowledge gained, we 
may pass to a yet higher stage of 
un foldment . 

In this higher stage, the adept 
- 6 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 20 
makes for himself a physical vehicle 
so enduring, so perfectly and radi- 
antly healthy, and so free a channel 
for the manifestation of the subtle 
forces of nature, that he may con- 
tinue to exist on the physical plane 
for a period of years far in excess 
of the ordinary life-span. When he 
does lay aside his physical body, 
what occurs is not death in the 
ordinary sense of the word. It is a 
simple stoppage of physical func- 
tion, and conscious separation of 
the higher vehicles of personality 
from the physical instrument. Thus, 
by his ability to remain a long time 
on the physical plane, as an adult 
human being, an adept has opportun- 
ity to make experiments and solve 
problems requiring protracted re- 
search. (Keys 13, 14, 15.) 

All this has its beginning in an 
intellectual recognition of the 
truth that every human personality 
is a particular expression of a uni- 
versal order. At first, this percep- 
tion assumes the form of belief. It 
is a conviction forced upon us by 
careful reasoning, following obser- 
vation of the course of nature. 
Then comes imaginative development 
of the seed idea, and the building 
up of definite mental images of the 
logical consequences to which this 
idea leads. Here all the creative 

-7- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 20 

powers of the mind are brought into 
play. 

lJu r thermo re , since mental images 
tend always to find outlet in action, 
the fostering of the seed idea by 
imagination results in actual alter- 
ations of circums tanceTJ These dem- 
onstrate the validity of the orig- 
inal thought. Little by little, the 
old habits of thinking are reversed, 
and there comes into manifestation a 
corresponding reversal of one's out- 
er situation. Joy takes the place 
of sorrow, health supplants disease, 
prosperity manifests itself in place 
of poverty, wisdom displaces ignor- 
ance. (Keys 10, 11, 12.) 

This process of verification begins 
with the overthrow of false notions^j 
By substituting accurate observation 
for superficial acquaintance with 
surface appearances, we store our 
memories with records of knowledge 
of things as they are, instead of 
with vague impressions of things as 
they look. Then, by meditating on 
what we have learned, we begin to 
see relationships unperceived by 
most persons, and our meditation al- 
so effects an adjustment of the bal- 
ance among certain centers of force 
in our bodies. 

This is what is represented by the 
symmetrical arrangement of stars in 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 20 

Key 17. The stars symbolize forces 
at work through astral and physical 
centers which are closely connected 
with the endocrine glands. Through 
right adjustment of the functions of 
these glands, the body chemistry is 
changed, and we are then transformed 
from the state of the natural man 
into the state of spiritual human- 
i ty r~] The seed of right thought 
bears fruit in perfected bodies. By 
this process we are graduated from 
the school of natural humanity, to 
take our rightful place in the ranks 
of the 4 4 twice-born. * * (Keys 16, 17, 
18. ) 

It cannot be made too emphatic 
that the methods of practical oc- 
cultism are directed to the end of 
effecting a distinct physiological 
modification. We hear much of adepts 
and masters, and, in certain quar- 
ters, altogether too much about 
astral bodies, and other finer vehi- 
cles of personality. Finer vehicles 
there certainly are, and, as part of 
our training, we have to learn how 
to function in them consciously. We 
have to learn also, how to impress 
on the physical brain a record of 
this higher functioning. 

On the other hand, some teaching 
found in books purporting to deal 
with practical occultism is such 

-9- 


TAH3T IN TEFiPRETATION 20 


that it leads to the belief that the 
physical body is only an obstacle to 
spiritual development* This is a 
gross error. An unhealthy body is 
certainly a bar to occult progress. 
Wise books insist that physical 
health must precede any attempt to 
work with finer forces, especially in 
those forms of practice which, in 
the Orient, are called Yoga* and in 
the Occident, Alchemy and Magic. 

This is one reason these lessons, 
written for our Associate Builders, 
have little to say about this kind 
of practice. We have learned that 
even relatively simple and carefully 
chosen exercises are often misap- 
plied. It seems to be a character- 
istic of occult immaturity for the 
pupil to be sure he knows more than 
his teacher! Even the best efforts 
of a teacher cannot altogether over- 
come this tendency. Thus it becomes 
the part of wisdom to withhold de- 
tailed explanation of technical work 
from all but those who have given 
satisfactory evidence of their fit- 
ness to receive such instruction. 
Astral work, in particular, is dan- 
gerous for persons who are not in 
perfect physical health. 

The main object of occult prac- 
tice, moreover, is not the develop- 
ment of the higher vehicles. One of 
the fallacies of pseudo-occul tism is 

- 10 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 20 


the notion that these vehicles need 
development. What must be purified 
and perfected is the physical body . 
Your finer vehicles are all right , 
just as they are . The Great Work 
consists in the integration of the 
‘‘strong force of ail forces'' here 
on the physical plane. This work 
includes various kinds of mental 
practice, and what you are doing 
with the Tarot Keys affords unlimited 
opportunities for this. The objec- 
tive is the building of a new type 
of organism. This new organism will 
not grow of itself. 

It grows by the application of the 
same laws and forces which have 
brought it to its present stage of 
4 4 natural humanity.'' But it must 
be taken beyond this stage, and the 
only way this can be done is by con- 
scious, intentional application of 
these powers to the end that the new 
creature may be evolved. 

It would seem to be fairly easy to 
understand that no work of this kind 
can succeed if one's efforts be di- 
rected to the wrong ends. This is 
why we insist that the unfoldrnent of 
a new kind of physical body, rather 
than the development of finer vehi- 
cles, is the object for which we are 
working. 

This being understood, it should 
- 11 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 20 


also be easy to see that since sub** 
consciousness is the body-builder, 
we shall get our new bodies as a 
result of its activities. From what 
we know of subconsciousness, it should 
should be evident also that since 
its activities are automatic, and 
are determined by our habitual con- 
scious mental attitudes, the first 
stages of the Great Work must be 
those which effect a change in our 
conscious thinking. It is for this 
reason that the Tarot series begins 
with the Magician, the Key which 
represents the use of our conscious 
intellectual powers in acts of at- 
tention, which attention, as you may 
see from a glance at the symbols of 
Key 1, is to be directed to the field 
of sensory experience. When we ob- 
serve that field accurately, our 
minds are stored with true impres- 
sions, and these bear fruit ulti- 
mately in the regeneration of our 
bodies. 

MEDITATIONS 

FIRST DAY: Keys 10, 14, 18. I am 
on the upward turn of the Wheel of 
Life which brings me ever nearer the ^ 

one true Goal. I embrace every op- 
portunity to verify the truths of 
Ageless Wisdom. The Perfect Law is 
being built up in my body. All that 
I am is related to the whole life- 
expression, and under the guidance 

-12 • 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 20 


of the Universal Mind, I press on - 
W&rd to the heights of liberation . 

SECOND DAY; Keys 11, 14, 17. I 
live my faith* It is a reasonable 
expectation of eternal progress. 
Every day I look for fresh revela- 
tions of truth. My whole life is 
adjusted to the Greater Life that 
works through me to reveal its per - 
fee t ion . 

THIRD DAY: Keys 12, 14, 16. I am 
consciously reversing my former 
states of mind. I live my life un- 
der direction from the One Self. I 
welcome the overthrow of every erro- 
neous opinion. I am. the unmoved 
witness of the grat transmutation 
which puts art end to the sense of 
separa tenes s . 

FOURTH DAY: Keys 13, 14, 15. I 

welcome change. I see in all exper- 
ience that the One Life works upon 
me to purify my whole personality. 
I face problems with equanimity, for 
I am one with That which knows the 
right answers to them all. This is 
a new day, and I meet its tests with 
joy, confident that every seeming ad- 
versary is but another opportunity . 

FIFTH DAY : Keys 10, 11, 12. The 
Spirit at the heart of the universe 
is one with my spirit. The law 
which rules the stars rules also in 
my members. My support is the Eter- 

- 13 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 20 


nal. I am unmoved by changing cir- 
cumstance, poised in the midst of 
action , certain of support through 
all apparent vicissitudes . 

SIXTH DAY: Keys 16, 17, 18. This 
day the 1 ightning-flash of some new 
knowledge of Reality rids me of an- 
other error. Let me he still, that 
I may see truth. The path is open 
before me, and I press onward toward 
the goal. I am free from the sense 
of separateness, and I rest this day 
in the unbroken knowledge that even 
in my body I am being raised to a 
height beyond all former attain- 
ments . 


Be ~ho+ fisMoned in aceordancae. lufth +h»s 


TAROT 


]jNT£R?R£TAT]ON 

JJ ffgHewmfc THE MIND 

- On'fral Kevj 


15 


over -shadowing presence of 


J^SSON "^1 

Constant Sa-m-m^lon 4j 

Con sc • oub n«ss of Lhe 

the One IdenK-f^V^ +he conse^uemi of tire operation 

of / 5'Ht«litio'nlk’5/ thru Reason C«f.) 
fa <i- represents the awareness of the orerskdioiu*‘h£ 
t 5 - shows whit brings the awareness 

46 ;> m. 4 MM*- -***- 

45 .S SM-rnOJ^ *6 * ^ r or-n \ Vo 9 indas.Ve «T ill n%S 
Reaso-n must Check |itUi4i»i before '*>i4uifi«D is useful 

Awareness re««ires bodily ahang'e - aecai-npli'shed fcf sobconscovs/jc* 

brou^fvt fcnf seif-eonse, which sees *hd accepts. Such as reos enable 

<1,1 "5, /I . Faith in at’i 1 1 4) to change bodij by. the mind b* cause ef 

Cosmic ^lat) £t>es one knovoledre -not attained btr senses 

Asfra.1 Lig0 »'> the ««*.'/ oj- e«tf(er»c do^rnd+iSYn - Levi 
fe >n| a,b/« to revise -fbe m^tch +5 <*f Asfr«jl Ligh^ gifcson* 

••liurceuU*** po*«r& i o Vh* physical body. 

• | * * An%l c^. any pr oblvm 5yv»t“b eS^S/^whc-b UTi^ti 

the+YaWi beVtVna *Hi« prcble-ra ^ 

iti •^j>Wi+ -must c.hintf« «s sotha+we re^ti^. 4Xdt is feeing^ 

done with in 14 s before \»« ten be said -fo kaitifcibjte. in 
S«(f- ctroUtian which brings «s to a higher- k/e( than the mass 

i«. /*, P * tWW* £«*• • “f ew «*ff } n oer -mi/scU -ter cu-m. v/.th a W. 
^ 13^ 3ooo°*to 6ooo°C. I r 

This tiery entr{<( is basis <4 our jacrso-ndCt^. When we 
C’dn reverse this of tWA ca.n overc.e*ne desHfs 

\'l-lt % l<t % To be. born a g'ain n^rnust be regenerated r»<i physical 
fee<U{ -must b« changed • Meditation <Ues this. 

HvVbt -ro.edita.+io'n mast be limed. it coordination. 

6 at all 04 * e««r<£i«£ 



TAROT INTERPRETATION 21 
RENEWING THE MIND 

THE TABLEAU for this week is: 

11 12 13 

14 15 16 

17 18 19 

The magic square is: 

14 19 12 
13 15 17 

18 11 16 

In both arrangements the central 
Key is number 15, the Devil. The 
constant summation of the magic 
square is 45. It shows our con- 
sciousness of the overshadowing 
presence of the One Identity (Key 9) 
as the consequence of the operation 
of intuition (Key 5) through reason 
(Key 4). Thus this tableau shows 
intuition as the source of material 
upon which reason works, to the end 
that we may become truly responsive 
to the One Identity. Key 15 shows 
what brings us to this awareness. 
Key 9 is the Tarot representation of 
that awareness itself. 

It is also noteworthy that the 
constant summation of the magic 
square is the number of the word 
D1X, Adam (K : , 1; 1, 4; D, 40). Thus 
- 1 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 21 


we may expect to find this square of 
Tarot Keys yields some definite ans- 
wer to the question, ‘‘What is 
man?'* Again, 45 is the extension 
of 9, or the sum of the numbers from 
0 to 9 inclusive, so that this con- 
stant summation of the magic square 
points to the complete expression of 
the power represented by Key 9* 

If we put all these ideas together 
it begins to be evident that here 
Tarot is reminding us: 

1. That reason is not limited to 
past experience, or to the sense 
life, for materials. It may receive 
material from above its own level, 
and when that higher knowledge comes 
down, it must be fitted just as care- 
fully into our reasoned constitution 
of the universe as anything learned 
from observation, as anything called 
forth from memory, as anything sug- 
gested by imagination. The Emperor, 
in other words, does not surrender 
his rule at his own level, even to 
the Hierophant, and reason must 
check up on intuition, before intui- 
tion can be of use to us at the 
self-conscious level of human life. 

2. That although awareness of the 
One Identity comes to us intuitive- 
ly, this intuition is not complete 
realization. To attain to realiza- 
tion, the intuition must be perceiv- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 21 


ed at the conscious level of reason, 
and at that level built into our 
mental scheme of the cosmic order. 
This is necessary because full real- 
ization of our relation to the One 
Identity requires certain definite 
changes in our bodily structure and 



perfectly true 


c hemi stry. 


that the merely natural man cannot 
receive the higher knowledge of the 
Spirit. It is true also that the 
bodily changes which enable him to 
receive that knowledge must be 
effected by the agency of the subcon- 
scious mind. But the subconscious 
mind is normally under the direction 
of the self-conscious level of 
awarenessi True it is that, as Key 
6 intimates, we may so train subcon- 
sciousness that she will act as the 
reflector of superconscious knowledge 
into our field of personal awareness. 
Yet to give us a full realisation, 
subconsciousness must change our 
physical bodies, and this it cannot 
do unless we accept such transmuta- 
tion as not only possible, but also 
reasonable. This is the inner sig- 
nificance of that passage which says: 
11 I beseech you therefore, brethren., 
by the mercies of God, that you pre- 
sent your bodies a living sacrifice, 
holy, acceptable unto God, which is 
your reasonable service. And be not 
conformed to this world: but be ye 


- 3 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 21 


transformed by the renewing of your 
mind, that ye may prove what is that 
good, and acceptable, and perfect 
will of God. ,r Here recall that Key 
9 represents Intelligence of Will. 

3. That the place of man in the 
cosmic order is to act as an agent 
whereby the Cosmic Will may be 
proved, or tested and tried. Man, 
where evolution leaves him, is ready 
for transformation. Evolution can 
carry him no farther along the path. 
A thousand thousand generations 
hence will find no man liberated from 
conformity to 11 this world , 1 9 unless 
he participates in his own self- 
evolution. The unique position of 
man, among all the creatures we know 
anything about, is that he can 
change his body by changing his 
mind, and thus provide himself with 
a new instrument, through which the 
Life-power may manifest the higher 
levels of its infinite potencies. 

Faith is required for this, but 
all attributions of Key 11, which 
represents the Faithful Intelli- 
gence, show us that this is not 
blind faith. The properly instruct- 
ed student of Ageless Wisdom has a 
deep and abiding faith, rooted in 
observation, and perfected by rea- 
son. The problems of life do not 
look less terrifying to an occultist 

- 4 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 21 


than they do to an ordinary man. 
The difference is that the practical 
occultist has been through a course 
of training which makes him know 
that no problem is really so bad as 
it looks. 

As he advances in his experimental 
work he learns also that there are 
sources of knowledge and power other 
than those reported to us by our 
senses. He is not sense-bound, for 
when he begins to succeed in his 
practical work, he becomes actually 
a new creature. 

His outward appearance may not be 
strikingly different from that of the 
rest of humanity. His inner life, 
however, is of a different kind. He 
knows himself to belong to what is 
virtually a new species on this 
planet--a species, so to say, self- 
generated. (Keys 11, 15, 19.) 


In the passage just quoted from 
St. Paul, the original Greek says: 
14 Be not fashioned in accordance 
with this age . * 9 Such is the invar- 
oable message of Ageless Wisdom. 
Therefore are its adepts always like 
strangers, even among their own kin, 
men and women whose whole course of 
life is looked upon with distrust, 
and, unless they conceal their aims 
and convictions, such persons are 
often denounced and persecuted, even 


- 5 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 21 

unto death. What is the fashion in 
any age is never the Inner Truth, 
for fashions change under the in- 
fluence of the race subconsciousness. 
The practical occultist aims to 
reverse conditions by reversing his 
thought, first of all. His views are 
in nearly every respect the exact 
opposites of those held by a merely 
natural man. 

Listen, for example, to Eliphas 
Levi, who tells us of the Great 
Magical Agent in these words: 4 'The 
Astral Light is the key of all do- 
minion. It is the first physical 
manifestation of the Divine Breath. 
The Gnostics represented it as the 
burning body of the Holy Ghost. It 
is represented on ancient monuments 
by the serpent devouring its own 
tail. It is the Hyle of the Gnos- 
tics. Lastly, it is the devil of 
exoteric dogmatism. * 4 

That is to say, it is what Tarot 
represents by Key 15. But what a 
reversal of common opinion to say 
that the 4 4 key of all dominion 4 4 is 
the 44 devil of exoteric dogmatism 44 ! 
Small wonder that sages have suffered 
martyrdom in every age when the herd 
mind has had the upper hand in the 
affairs of men! 

The great problem the practical 
occultist has to face is one which 


- 6 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 21 


assumes protean forms. It is the 
problem of his own ignorance, and, 
particularly, the problem of his 
ignorance as to the reversal of the 
currents of the Astral Light. He 
who solves this problem can rule all 
things, for he can so change his 
physical body that it may be used as 
an instrument for the direction of 
modes of force which would consume 
the ordinary physical vehicle of hu- 
man personality. (Keys 12, 15, 18.) 

4 4 Dissolu tion , ' ' say the alchem- 
ists, 4 4 is the secret of the Great 
Work , 9 1 and they represent dissolu- 
tion by the symbol which you see on 
Key 10, just above the letter R on 
the wheel. This is also the symbol 
for the sign Aquarius, the Water- 
bearer. £Aquarius is the sign which 
has greatest power in the age we are 
now enteringTjf It is peculiarly the 
sign of Man, represented on Keys 10 
and 21 by the man's head at the up- 
per left-hand corner of the design. 

Thus it is toward what this sign 
represents that the Fool is looking. 
In chemsitry, dis soluti on i s now 
termed a na lys is , and this is what is 
meant by the alchemical dictum just 
quoted. Every problem has first to 
be analyzed. Its component parts 
must be separated from one another, 
and carefully measured. 

- 7 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 21 


In Key 15 we see pictured many 
parts, put together in disorderly, 
chaotic fashion. To understand this 
picture of the Devil, we must take 
it to pieces. Then only do we see 
that what it really represents is 
something both male and female, 
something found in all the elements 
(wings, air; eagle's talons, water; 
goat's horns and gross body, earth; 
torch, fire). Then it dawns on us 
that the whole design represent* a 
disorderly combination of forces, 
and the reversed pentagram at the 
top of the picture gives us a clue 
to the cause of the confusion. 
Trouble comes whenever man's ignor- 
ance reverses his true position of 
dominion over the elements. 

In general, every problem is a 
phase of what Key 1§ symbolizes. 
Analysis of any problem into its 
parts is valuable because it shows 
where these parts fit into the cosmic 
order. Thus analysis leads to syn- 
thesis, and synthesis unveils the 
beautiful truth behind the ugly face 
of every problem. (Keys 13, 15, 17.) 

It has been said that man must 
participate in his self-evolution if 
he is to advance to higher levels 
than those represented by the con- 
sciousness of the herd- mind. Yet 
you must not understand from this 
that Ageless Wisdom holds that man 

- 8 - 


e a 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 21 


has a power which he may contribute 
to the Great Work, or may, if he so 
determines, withhold from that Work, 
For then man would be more powerful 
than the Universal Spirit whence he 
came, and could defeat the purposes 
of that Spirit. To be exact, it is 
not until the work of the Spirit 
upon us, from within and without, 
has changed us so that we realize 
what is going on within us that we 
ay be said to participate in the 
reat Work. 


Those, for example, who reject the 
doctrine of Ageless Wisdom cannot 
accept it. St. Paul had this in 
mind when he wrote: * f The natural 
man receiveth not the things of the 
Spirit of God: for they are foolish- 
ness unto him: neither can he know 
them, because they are spiritually 
discerned. 

Up to a certain point, we are all 
subjects of the work of transmuta- 
tion. Beyond that point, we become 
participants. From then on there is 
a subtle, but important, change in 
our mental attitude. We no longer 
fear problems. We welcome every 
problem as a fresh opportunity. 


Problems do not look any less ter- 
rifying, but they cease to daunt us. 
Because we know ourselves to be cen- 
ters of expression for a power wise 
enough to resolve every problem into 


- 9 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 21 


its component parts, and bring those 
parts together again in an orderly 
arrangement, we face every problem 
boldly, without bitterness of heart. 

Ljhis state of mind does not come 
all at once.j It is preceded by the 
break-up of many structures of false 
knowledge. Storm and stress precede 
the calm of serene meditation. Thus 
the Psalmist tells us that a heart 
utterly shattej-ed and broken is not 
despised by God. He means that 
until we have dissolved our subcon- 
scious complexes of erroneous opin- 
ion, based on our acceptance of the 
illusion of separateness as being, 
not an illusion, but an actual real- 
ity, there is no possibility of 
advancing beyond the stage of bond- 
age to problems and circumstance. 
This stage of extreme discomfort is 
the ordinary predicament of the 
natural man. (Keys 14, 15, 16.1 

Remember that the transformation 
begins with faith, For faith, be it 
understood, is not in these days 
limited to religion, philosophy, or 
metaphysics. Our scientists exer- 
cise a degree of faith which sur- 
passes in intensity anything which 
is achieved by the ordinary reli- 
gious devotee. No person, for 
example, ever saw an electron, or a 
gene, but few scientists doubt their 

- 10 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 21 

existence. The fission of the atom 
was accomplished by men who had 
faith in things unseen which were 
revealed to them by the symbols of 
pure mathematics. 

Dr. George Crile has asserted that 
in every cubic inch of our muscles 
there are probably four billion tiny 
points of radiant energy, each of 
which has a temperature of from 
3,000 to 6,000 degrees centigrade. 
His faith in the presence of these 
tiny hot points in our bodies is a 
reasonable faith, justified by the 
fact that living tissue emits ultra- 
violet rays. Hnce Dr. Crile argues 
that since we know it takes a tem- 
perature of at least 3,000 degrees 
to produce ultra-violet rays, there 
must be these high temperatures in 
extremely diminutive hot points 
our muscles. We do not feel the 
heat because the points are so tiny 
that they do not affect our senses. 

This discovery, by the way, is a 
direct confirmation of the old occult 
doctrine that man is a microcosm. 
The newspaper dispatch in which it 
was first reported said: ‘ ‘ We may say 
that protoplasm is a Milky Way con- 
sisting of ‘solar systems,* infinite- 
ly diminutive, each created in its 
own image by the sun*s radiance.*' 

More recently, physicists have 
announced that the conception of 

- 11 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 21 


protoplasm as being a fundamental 
living substance is no longer ten- 
able. Protoplasm, they say, turns 
out to be simply a certain combina- 
tion of various kinds of matter, and 
its component elements do not ex- 
hibit the characteristic vital 
phenomena we find expressed through 
the protoplasmic combination. What 
we call life is manifested so that 
we may observe its activity whenever 
seemingly lifeless substances are 
c ombined in certain ways . This, of 
course, means that the potentiality 
of life is present in all “mat- 
ter , M whether it be organic or 
inorganic. Hence what St. John 
said: * ‘God can of these very stones 
raise up children unto Abraham , 9 9 is 
seen to be literally true. 

So, step by step, the advance of 
science confirms the ancient doc- 
trines of occultism, and strengthens 
our reasonable conviction that human 
life is related to, and is dependent 
on, the entire world-organism. The 
whole universe flows through us, and 
the stuff from which our bodies are 
made is structurally a miniature 
copy of the stars of heaven. 

HFhis fiery energy is the basis of 
our existence as human personal- 
ities. The particular form of it 
which holds greatest possibilities 
for us is that which ordinarily finds 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 21 


expression through the reproductive 
function. When we know the nature 
of this energy, we can control its 
currents, and reverse their ordinary 
operation. By this means we may 
emerge from the bondage of the natu- 
ral man into the freedom of the 
higher order of being for which the 
natural man is but a seed-formj In 
so emerging from natural humanity we 
shall be released, as our final 
demonstration, from bondage to the 
appearance of death, which the Bible 
rightly describes, as. the * 1 las t 
enemy. (Keys 11, 12, 13.) 

Me di tat i on is one of the most 
important practices involved in our 
release from natural humanity^ It 
isfprimarily a state of intentional 
receptivity to the spiritual life 
which flows into our field of person- 
ality from superconscious levels . ] 
We must open ourselves to that life 
in order to meditate. At the same 
time, we must keep self-conscious? 
ness on the alert, and direct our 
attention to some specific object 
toward which, or around which, the 
stream of intelligence coming from 
higher levels may be made to flow. 
Right meditation should be aimed al- 
ways at the co-ordination of all our 
energies, as hinted by the balanced 
arrangement of stars in Key 17, and 
this co-ordination has a physical 

- 13 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 21 

result. Meditation changes the 
physical body, alters its chemistry 
and structure. Our emergence from 
the state of natural humanity is as 
definitely a physiological adaptation 
as is the emergence of the natural 
man from the animal kingdom. If we 
are to be transformed by the renew- 
ing of our minds, it is not less 
true that the result of the trans- 
formation is an actual regeneration, 
to which the wise refer when they 
say we must be born again. (Keys 17, 
18, 19.) 

MEDITATIONS 

FIRST DAY: 11, 15, 19. Today I 
have fresh opportunities to adjust 
and adapt the forces of life. These 
opportunities come as the problems I 
shall meet this day. Through solv- 
ing them I may become a new crea- 
ture. I have power to adjust all 
difficulties, for I am a direct ex- 
pression of the ruling power of the 
universe . 

SECOND DAY: 12, 15, 18. Today I 
set myself to reverse my former er- 
rors. Let me remember that whatever 
frightens me does so because I have 
not learned its meaning. Let me 
press onward in the Way of Libera- 
tion, toward the goal of enlighten- 
ment. I am an agent of the Spirit 
of Life , which knows the answers to 

-14- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 21 


all my problems, and is shaping my 
very fie s h to the end that I may 
solve them . 

THIRD DAY: 13, 15, 17. I am 
transformed by the renewing of. my 
mind. There is no bondage for me, 
save that of my own ignorance. That 
bondage I dissolve today through 
calm meditation. I analyze my prob- 
lems, and discern the opportunities 
they hold for me, through my steady 
meditation on their true meaning . 

FOURTH DAY: 14, 15, 16. I see my- 
self today as the subject of the 
Great Work of spiritual transmuta- 
tion. My bondage, however real 
it may appear to be, is only delusion. 
It will end when I am released from 
the prison of error I have built 
myself. The One Self is working 
through me to solve every problem 
and release me from all erroneous 
opinion . 

FIFTH DAY: 11, 12, 13. My faith 
is grounded in reason. I entrust 
myself to a cosmic order for which I 
have abundant evidence. Not even 
death frightens me, for I know its 
beneficent purpose. I am poised and 
secure in the midst of change . 

SIXTH DAY: 17, 18, 19. Today, in 
silent meditation, I shall catch a 
new glimpse of truth. For I am be- 
ing transformed bodily by the new 

- 15 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 21 


knowledge I a»n receiving. The pro- 
cess of regeneration is at work 
within me. As I see truth, I am 
transformed into a more perfect 
likeness of my spiritual origin. 


- 16 - 




L£S5oH 21 l K"b PI RAT I6U 

Cotis+awi Su-mwA-Wo-n 4«. C« niVal <(ev/ /4 

Abe p s> reversal or d f n ary sfafes oj cotts&iovshoss Cl^-J 

a 5 4fce ycs«I+ of the **rW„g- ^ f he |*„Ojthr<, reason C4 J 


?.\** s r* toTr * c 1 +, < * e b, ^ +hd+ 


^11 $U h hcfmdti sfflfec m il^ • *, f 
, , , , . * S ** ,h fc f°^e dre under 

f.,H, -% IS r.», H ^ ^ H(j 'V 


/aw/ 


Ke H lb shew* fhe sfafe of c M , stlo „ h . ss w(l ; c/l /. f fce rest ,u *. 
6 * r rdt4St 1 roTn of r n/sfafcew of,,* n /on * 


48 is also the -number of Kolcab, 


fn Hebrew -Mercury •’« gineric j 0Y dentil*. Conceh/r^ 


^he As+ZO-l Li f ht. 6 "material basis of 0 <ir befn^ - . ^ 

li^ ipd flai^ Yejjrtsen-fe ; knovok^^e. -Ffatni'ng Svoord 

IOdsp*cis tj Ij-e, jiorue*'- /e» Sefoji/ rof/7 
b | nru>n^-^v rvo ^, c< j( _ bltMid .) A^d^ici/ .force »'s in fhe blood 

'Solu+r on - f5 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 22 
INSPIRATION 

THE TABLEAU for this week is: 

12 13 14 
15 16 17 
18 19 20 

The magic square is: 

15 20 13 
14 16 18 
19 12 17 

In both arrangements the central 
card is Key 16, the Tower. The con- 
stant summation of the magic square 
is 48. It shows the adept's re- 
versal of ordinary states of con- 
sciousness (Key 12) as the result of 
the working of the law represented 
by Key 8 through reason (Key 4). 
This tableau shows that in order to 
reason correctly, we must profit by 
the law that all subhuman states of 
the life-force are under the control 
of the subconscious level of human 
mentality. Faulty reasoning is of- 
ten the result of our ignorance of 
this law. Key 16 shows the state of 
consciousness which is the result of 
our release from complexes of mis- 
taken opinion. 

The constant summation of the mag- 
ic square, 48, is also the number of 

-i/ 


TAPGT INTERPRETATION 22 


the word 3313, Kokab , (3, 20; 1, 6; 
2, 20; 3, 2). This is Hebrew for 
Mercury, the planet. It therefore 
relates to all things Hermetic, and, 
in particular, to the power of at- 
tentive concentration pictured in 
Tarot by the Magician. 

Kokab, however, has a more general 
meaning than its special application 
to the planet Mercury. It is the 
generic Hebrew term for “star. M 
Thus the Great Magical Agent, which 
Eliphas Levi calls * ‘Astral Light , 99 
would be D'3313H 31K, Aur ha - Kokab - 
im, ‘‘Light of the Stars. ’ f The 
numeration of these two words is 
310, and this is the numeration of 
$m, to conquer, of MH, to bind, 
and of is, are; essence, being. 

The Astral Light, Levi writes, is 
the blind force souls must conquer. 
It binds us so long as we remain in 
ignorance of its nature and laws. 
Yet it is the material basis of our 
being, for it is the substance of 
heaven and earth, diffused throughout 
infinity. When we master and direct 
its currents, we become depositaries 
of the power of God, for the Astral 
Light, the First Matter of the 
alchemists, is the power whose 
superconscious manifestation is rep- 
resented by Key 0, whose self- 
conscious modes of expression are 
symbolized by Key 1, and whose sub- 

- 2 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 22 


conscious law of operation is pic- 
tured by Key 3. Thus it is of some 
interest to note that the number 310 
is also the number of the noun T'33, 

a young lion. (See Key 8.) 

The central idea of this lesson, 
represented by Key 16, is the over- 
throw of error by right knowledge. 
Your other studies of Key 16 have 
told you that the basis of all error 
is the delusion of separateness, 
pictured by the lonely peak on which 
the Tower is built. Right knowledge 
is symbolized by the lightning-flash, 
which is also a symbol of the 
flaming sword, representing the ten 
aspects of the Life-power, the ten 
Sephiroth of the Qabalists. 

Now, in Hebrew the ' ‘ flaming 
sword' ' (Gen. 3:24) is inn H 
l a what ha-kher eb (44 plus 215, or 
259). Lawhat, which is translated 
* ‘ flaming, ' ' means also ‘'magical,'* 
or ‘‘the force of enchantment.'' By 
numeration it is connected with the 
noun dam, blood. Ha- khe re b , the 

sword, is equal by numeration to 
n'TK, a path, a narrow way, and to 
HIT, to irradiate, to rise (as the 
sun ) . 

Briefly stated, the esoteric doc- 
trine indicated by the Qabalistic 
correspondences is that the magical 
force is in the blood, that to di- 
rect it is to find liberation, and 
-3- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 22 


that as it rises in our conscious- 
ness and sends its radiance through 
our lives, we are set free. It is 
called the flaming sword in the story 
of the fall of man, because that 
story refers to the descent of con- 
sciousness from the higher and inner 
planes to the physical. The sword 
‘ 4 turns every way*' because it is 
the fire force in the blood stream, 
circulating through our bodies, and 
therefore turning in every direc- 
tion. It keeps us out of Eden, for 
the time being, so that we may gain 
knowledge of the physical plane. 

Yet this same force in our blood is 
what we must learn to use in order 
to overcome the delusions which 
cause all our difficulties. 

In order to break up our complexes 
of error, represented by the Tower, 
we must adopt the. mental attitude 
expressed by Key 12. Conscious and 
voluntary reversal of our thinking 
is indispensable. This reversal 
must be practiced continually. 

We must reverse the notion that we 
are in any sense separate beings. 

We must reverse the notion that we 
are personally independent, and sub- 
stitute for it the truth that we are 
related mentally and spiritually to 
the cosmic whole, and utterly de- 
pendent thereon. We must also 
reverse our notion of what we mean 
-A- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 22 

by the pronoun 4 4 I,'' and see the 
identity of that , *I ,t with univer- 
sal Spirit. 

This takes a lot of practice, for 
it does not come naturally to us. 
Eventually, this practice will re- 
sult in the overthrow of all our 
subconscious complexes of error. 
More, it works di rec ^jy on our phys- 
ical bodies, changing them just a 
little every day, altering both 
chemistry and structure, until at 
length we are released from bondage 
to three-dimensional appearances and 
come actually to know ourselves as 
four-dimensional beings. Remember, 


we do not become f our - d imen s i on al 


beings by this practice. We only 
become directly and positively aware 
that we are, and then we can exer- 



cise powers belonging to that state 


(Keys 12, 16, 19.) 


What we call the Mars force is 
directly involved in the transforma- 
tion of personality which overthrows 
error. The magic power flaming in 
our blood stream, and flaming, too, 
in every tissue of our bodies, flows 
out of the symbolic North, the place 
of darkness and terror which repre- 
sents all things unknown, toward the 
East and South, representing en- 
lightenment and power. It is by 
control 0 f forces which in every 
generation of ordinary humanity have 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 22 


inspired terror, and have been sur- 
rounded with taboos, that the real 
magician first of all transforms him- 
self, and then, through himself, his 
world. 

He works first upon himself, that 
he may build a different organism, 
capable of registering vibrations in 
his environment which pass unper- 
ceived by those who have not made 
themselves over. This new organism 
is able also to direct forces which 
an ordinary human body cannot man- 
ipulate. Thus the true nagician 
finds himself in a new world, which 
he orders in ways which seem miracu- 
lous to ignorant persons. He denies 
and destroys his old ‘‘self,'' for 
that false self is really non- 
existent. Thus^all magic includes 
self-immolationT\ 


Out of the destroyed false self, 
sacrificed on the flaming pyre of 
right knowledge, rises, like the 
fabled Phoenix, the true Self. This 
regenerated Self is the solar being 
whose instruments are the transmuted 
human consciousness and subcon- 



sciousness 


magician is 


consciously identified with the great 
Intelligence whose physical brain is 
the SunZJ There's a real occult 
statement for you. It says much in 
few words. May you extract .from it 
its full meaning- (Keys 13, 16, 19.) 

- 6 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 22 


This same Sun-Spirit is the Holy 
Guardian Angel pictured in Key 14 . 
Fortunately for us, we do not have 
to perform the Great Work with no 
more than the meagre equipment 
afforded by our personal conscious- 
ness. The personal consciousness is 
being worked upon, and at one stage 
of the work it is utterly broken up, 
in order that it may be reconsti- 
tuted. Thus you will not fail to 
notice that the 1 ightn ing- flash in 
Key 16 comes from outside the Tower, 
and springs from a solar disc. 

Adepts who are close to the final 
realization say with St. Paul, lt l 
die daily . tf They are conscious of 
the dissolution of the persons they 
used to be, and they rejoice in it. 
In alchemy, this stage of the Great 
Work is called putrefaction , because 
it is actually the complete disor- 
ganization of all the combinations 
which entered into the make-up of 
the old personality. Refusal to 
enter into this stage of the Great 
Work keeps many students from making 
any real practical demonstration. 
Remember, you cannot stay as you are 
ind become an adept . The path is a 
path of reorganization, and to gain 
the crown at its end, you music pass 
far beyond the states and conditions 
of ordinary human personality. (Keys 
14, 16, 18 * ) 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 22 


What particular problem confronts 
you now? That is your starting- 
point. Try to realize now that the 
real nature of that problem is this: 
you are mistaken about something . 
What you are ignorant of, primarily, 
is tome aspect of your own real pow- 
er. There is power enough to enable 
you to meet that problem. There is 
wisdom enough to correct your error. 
Yet nothing will help you, so long 
as you hang onto the error. This 
problem you face is no real excep- 
tion to the general perfection of 
the cosmic order. It is really an 
opportunity, but first of all, an op- 
portunity for you to get rid of some 
pet bit of nonsense you are treasur- 
ing. Few people like to be told 
this, but the- few who have ears to 
hear are the ones who eventually be- 
come adepts and masters. 

The ordinary human reaction to any 
problem is either to run away from 
it, or else to blame somebody else, 
or the stars, or Fate, or Karma for 
it. The unusual reaction to a prob- 
lem is to see in it an opportunity 
for the unveiling of some hitherto 
unrecognized aspect of truth. 

You have heard of ' 'The Dweller on 
the Threshold ,' 9 perhaps? And if 
you are well-read on this particular 
topic, you know that the * 'Dweller 1 9 
is none other than your false self. 

- 8 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 22 


On what threshold does he stand? On 
the threshold of Che Adytum of 
1 ‘god-nourished silence . 1 9 On the 
threshold of the Gate of Eden. Remembe 
that 1 'paradise' ’ means literally 
1 1 an enclosure. ’ ' The path of lib- 
eration leads within . The powers 
which release us are within. The 
beautiful pleasure garden where na- 
ture unveils herself is also within. 

What more, need be said? (Keys 15, 

16, 17.) 

Reverse the ordinary attitudes of 
ordinary men, and you attain to the 
consciousness of the adept. You do 
not become anything that you are not 
now. Strange doctrine this, but 
true. You do not become, but you do 
enter into a new region of knowl- 
edge. You do not add to yourself 
anything. You find what you already 
possess. Franklin, Galvani, Faraday 
and Edison did not bring electricity 
into the world. Their knowledge of 
it was the germ of this electrical 
age. 

Reverse ordinary states of human 
consciousness, and you die to the 
personality that you were while 
those states dominated your mind. 

You die, but in dying you learn ex- 
perimentally that there is no death, 
and find yourself liberated from the 
notion that you must have a physical 

- 9 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 22 

body in order to be alive. /.For 
those experiences which abolish the 
consciousness of death come rela- 
tively early on the path of libera- 
tion. Reverse the false appearances 
of 11 this world,'' and you will find 
that the 4 ‘Knowledge and Conversa- 
tion of the Holy Guardian Angel'' is 
actually Self-knowledge. 

Can we be plainer? Yet how many 
will hear and understand? Listen 
again to the words of the wise, 
written at the beginning of Fama 
F rat emit at is , where they say the 
book was written 4 4 that man might 
thereby understand his own nobleness 
and worth, and why he is called Mi- 
c roco smus , and how far his knowledge 
extendeth into Nature. ' ' (Keys 12, 
13, 14* ) 

Remember, too,j_that the Life-power 
has to be incorporated in an organ- 
ism before its higher manifestations 
may be expressed here on the physi- 
cal plane. J This is the occult truth 
behind all doctrines of incarnation. 
This is the hidden mystery of 4 4 the 
Word made flesh. ' ' The natural man 
has a natural body. The adept has 
an adept's body. The body you have 
now is the seed from which you may 
develop a higher organism; but you 
must participate consciously in the 
development. The actual building of 
your new body is accomplished at 

-:o- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 22 


subconscious levels, symbolized by 
the moon above the path in Key 18. 
The way, or method, whereby this is 
accomplished is the middle way be- 
tween the extremes of artificiality 
and the general averages of the 
merely natural. This way leads to 
actual regeneration. 

Regeneration is no mere metaphys- 
ical term. It designates an actual 
generative process, occurring in the 
practical occultist's physical body. 
As a result, he develops an organ 
for the solar consciousness men- 
tioned in this lesson. Then his 
personal conscious and subconscious 
life is renewed, and he becomes as a 
little child. From this regenera- 
tion he passes on to the next stage 
of unfoldment, in which ordinary re- 
strictions of time and space do not 
affect the adept’s action. (Keys 18, 
19, 20.) 

This that we speak of is not so 
far off in the future as you may sup- 
pose. Doctrines which pretend that 
this realization is far ahead of us 
are false doctrines. L.I f we have 
mentality to grasp the principle, we 
have already arrived at the stage 
where a large measure of realization 
is possible?) Th is message is not 
sent you as a promise to be fulfilled 
some twenty incarnations hence,. nor 
in some after-life to which death is 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 22 

the portal. It is a message of hope 
for the here and now, intended to 
rouse your expectation of better 
conditions in this life. Remember, 
you are a fou r- dimens i onal being. 
You are not really bound by the lim- 
its of space and time. Your effective 
range is far beyond what most per- 
sons suppose. 

Right now you can, and do, heal or 
hurt at a distance, and your person- 
al activity affects the lives of 
others who may live thousands of 
miles away. What these lessons, and 
all similar teachings emanating from 
the Inner School, aim to accomplish 
is to awaken men and women to clear 
understanding of what they really 
are. You must know what you are 
doing before you can do it intelli- 
gently, before you can bring your 
performance up to the standard of 
virtuosity we call * 1 adep tship. 9 ' 

Possibly it may seem to you that 
we set the mark too high. Not so. 
The world needs healers, needs 
thinkers who can consciously pro- 
ject their constructive imagery into 
mental space. Many are called, and 
if few are chosen, it is only be- 
cause, notwithstanding all that has 
been said and written about practi- 
cal occultism, only a few understand 
what it really is, and fewer still 
are really working. 

- 12 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 22 
MEDITATIONS 


FIRST DAY: Keys 12, 16, 20. The 
movement of universal forces is the 
basis of all my personal activity. 
Let me be free from the delusion of 
separateness. Let me be free from 
belief that I am bound by time and 
space. Doing nothing of myself, I 
yet enter freely into all activity , 
for my real life is the Universal 

Life . 

SECOND DAY: Keys 13, 16, 19. All 
things are made new for me this day. 
The errors of the past cannot im- 
prison me. Today, even today, I am 
a new creature. The seed of the new 
life springs within me into its un- 
fo Idrnent , breaking down all barriers 
and uniting me consciously to the 
radii:nce of my shining Self . 

THIRD DAY: Keys 14, 16, 18. My 
personal consciousness is being 
transmuted by my true Self. Its 
inspiration shatters the delusion 
which is the only bondage. In my 
flesh the magic flaming sword turns 
every way to cut off all that is 
false. The alchemy of Spirit trans- 
mutes my bondage into freedom, and I 
press onward to the goal of perfect 
rea lizat ion, 

FOURTH DAY: Keys 15, 16, 17. I 

rejoice at this day’s problems. 
They are opportunities to break 

- 13 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 22 


down the walls of ignorance. I 
watch expectantly for the unveiling 
of truth. My problem is an oppor- 
tunity to overcome error and see the 
beauty that really is. 

FIFTH DAY: Keys 12, 13, 14. The 
more I^yield to the One Life, the 
more it yields itself to me. What I 
was dies out as what I am becomes 
ever clearer. I am guided safely 
through this day. Supported by the 
One Great Life, through all appear- 
ances of change, all my personal 
forces are truly adjusted by the One 
Se If. 

SIXTH DAY: Keys 18, 19, 20. My 
subconsciousness is continually at 
work to build me a finer body. In 
that body is awakening the new life 
of the spiritual man that I truly 
am. I am set free from every limi- 
tation. My body is regenerated into 
t he divine likeness which knows no 
bondage of time or space. 


*5 


-a i - /</ 
IS- 11- if 
2.0-11-1 8* 



X&23 \si s owVEiueo 

Con slant StiTnrn<s+‘6n if | fiVot" ^ 

Sho*J»tfci t).'s«.Yimin»+ioij as the -manlto <4- (\\ ... ■ . 

obseria;.». fhYU UtS.’+ls* CO -^We. 

A/umbcY cenW ^ ^it a's ,* x ^ C0 „sW wr,^,, m&i 

'b 3 tiwucs + ** -nuvnber' ccnfcK ^ q. 

#<rmn\at>'oi? 5 e^T'oscnia the ojaera+fon wKa^ the cetiti* 

k««f bor\ r4vs ®n all 3 planes - Mpper- S<*k>ertonsciuvSft« ss 
1 >niUle -self. ■. 

. bitfsin - 3 « 6c. '« 





TAROT INTERPRETATION 


LESSON TWENTY-THREE 
ISIS UNVEILED 

The tableau for this lesson is 

13 14 15 

16 17 18 

19 20 21 

The magic square is 

16 21 14 

15 17 19 

20 13 18 

Central in both arrangements is Key 17, the 
Star. The constant summation of the magio 
square is 51. It shows discrimination (Key 6) 
as the manifestation of attentive observation 
(Key 1) through intuition (Key 5). This tab- 
leau emphasizes the importance of observation, 
attention, concentration, and all else that the 
Magician symbolizes, in relation to discrimina- 
tion. What is pictured in Key 6 is the 
outcome of intuition, to be sure, but intuition 
does not work unless observation at self- 
oonscious levels has been called into play. 
Intuition supplies what self-conscious reason- 
'ing and observation cannot give — yet at the 
same time, intuition requires that self-con- 
scious reasoning and observation shall first 
have provided the mind with materials to work 
on/1 We arrange the elements of life at self- 
conscious levels, as the Magician arranges his 
implements on the table. When the arrangement 
is finished, the Hierophant gives us its mean- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-THREE 2 

ing. No meaning can be given until the ar- 
rangement has been made. 

Note that the number 51 is three times 17, 
the number of the Key at the center of the 
magic square* This, of course, holds good for 
the central Keys of all the other magic squares 
in this series. Their constant summation is 
always_ three i times the number printed on the 
central Key, and in all instances it points to 
the operation of what is represented by the 
central Key, at the three great levels of 
superconsciousness, self-consciousness, and 
subconsciousness. In this ninefold arrangement 
the upper row of Keys represents superconscious 
manifestations, the middle row stands for self- 
oonscious manifestations, and the bottom row 
symbolizes subconscious manifestations of the 
powers represented by the Keys. 

The main idea to bring out of this tableau 
is that Nature unveils herself. It is not we 
who unveil her. The veil hiding Isis is but 
the tissue of our own ignorance, yet even this 
is lifted by Isis herself. For Nature is the 
power of Spirit, "the mysterious power, diffi- 
cult to cross over." Nature is Spirit in 
action, and our own quest for reality is an- 
other phase of that same action. Spirit is the 
aotual, true Self. In us it v/orks to bring 
about the changes in our personal vehicles 
which constitute our enlightenment. You who 
read this lesson read it because Spirit, your 
real Self, has brought you to this present 
stage of the Great Work, Spirit speaks to you 
through these words. These lessons are a means 
whereby the true I AM makes itself known to 
you. 

Eliphas Levi says* "Death has no existence 
in the Sanctum Regnum of existence. A change. 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-THREE 3 

however awful, demonstrates movement, and move- 
ment is lifes only those who have attempted to 
check the disrobing of the spirit have tried to 
create a real death. We are all dying and 
being renewed every day, because every day our 
bodies have changed to some extent. Understand 
well that the life-current of the progress of 
souls is regulated by a law of development 
which carries the individual ever upward." By 
this dying and renewal truth becomes manifest 
to us. We must be receptive, if we would learn 
the inner doctrine. We cannot be properly 
receptive until we have rid ourselves of our 
false personalities. When we know how to re- 
direct and sublimate the currents of the Sreat 
Magical Agent which brings death to us until we 
have subdued it, we are able to participate in 
the higher consciousness pictured by Key 21. 
(Keys 13, 17, 21.) 

One practical observance needs to be insist- 
ed on. It is that of tempering all activities 
through the exeroise of their opposites. Here 
again Levi has words of wisdom. "If you desire 
long life and health, avoid all excesses, carry 
nothing to extremes , , , So when you have 
passed beyond the mortal sphere by the allure- 
ments of ecstasy, return to yourself, seek 
repose, and enjoy the pleasures which life sup- 
plies for the wise, but do not indulge yourself 
too freely ... Let there be no misunderstand- 
ing. To vanquish an enemy there must be no 
running awayj true victory can only follow 
meeting him face to face, joining in a strug- 
gle, and so showing your command over him." 
Only a balanced person can be a practical 
occultist. Only a balanced person, thoroughly 
poised in mind, emotions and body, may look 
without peril on the face of truth. Consider 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-THREE 4 

well the balanced disposition of the stars in 
Key 17. If you would enter fully into the 
realization of your fourth-dimensional nature, 
you must first of all achieve equilibrium 
between the conscious and subconscious elements 
of your mentality. Then from that equilibrium 
will spring a new awareness of the meaning of 
personality (typified by the child in Key 20), 
and in that awareness you will know yourself as 
freed from time and space and all forms of 
bondage growing out of these illusions. (Keys 
14, 17, 20.) 

Most people dread problems and difficulties. 
The terrors of the unknown have filled the 
race mind with a host of dreadful images whose 
name truly is "Legion.” Yet they have no sub- 
stance other than the mind-stuff from which 
they have been fashioned by man’s ignorant 
fears. Potent they are, while we fear them and 
believe in them. Like pursuers in a nightmare, 
they approach ever nearer to us, however fast 
we run away. We must turn and face them boldly. 
Examine a problem closely, and concentrate 
deeply upon it. Then meditation will always 
reveals its true significance, and present you 
with a solution. Always in such solutions you 
will find means to further your regeneration. 
Always they show you a way to transmute some 
part of your old personality into a better and 
stronger likeness of your essential divinity. 
(Keys 15, 17, 19.) 

In Key 16 you will notice that the twenty- 
two Yods are shown in two groups. At the right 
of the tower are ten, arranged in the form of 
the Qabalistic Tree of Life. At the left of 
the tower, the remaining twelve are so disposed 
that the arrangement suggests two circles, one 
above the other, like a figure 8 . The tower 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-THREE 5 

itself is built on an isolated peak of rook, 
and its twenty-two courses are of white brick, 
symbol of the "moonshine" of human opinion. 

That is to say, none of the powers which 
constitute your personal existence is dependent 
on any form of material manifestation. They 
support themselves, and like the Yods, they are 
floating in the atmosphere, in free space. An 
error of errors is this belief of ours in the 
importance of form, this dependence on things. 
Immaterial forces project themselves into our 
material existence (including our bodies and 
their physical environment). Things are the 
external manifestation of invisible and inter- 
nal realities. 

Thus the kneeling figure in Key 17 is nude, 
in contrast to the garmented figures falling 
from the tower; and the whole symbolism of Key 
17 is a picture of smooth, fluidic motion, in 
contrast to the apparent fixity of the tower 
and its rocky base. What holds man back from 
progress is his insane desire to preserve the 
particular forms of existence he has enjoyed. 

At the bottom of the path in Key 18 is a 
hard-shelled animal. Further up the path 
are the relatively soft-skinned dog and wolf. 
In the middle distance are towers representing 
the works of man, but between them there is an 
opening, and the Way of Return leads far beyond 
them. Far beyond all structure, far beyond all 
protection of mere form. In the practical work 
to which Key 18 refers, the gradual unfoldmenb 
of the powers within us does change even our 
bodies so that they become less and less dense, 
until finally, in adeptship, we reach a stage 
where their structure is so altered that it is 
relatively easy to disintegrate them, by rais- 
ing their vibrations from the physical plane to 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-THREE 6 

higher octaves of manifestation. Only he who 
is free from bondage to form and structure at- 
tains the greatest heights of adeptship. (Keys 
16, 17, 18.) 

This is one of the main reasons for occupy- 
ing our selves with thought about death, until 
we see clearly that the death of physical 
bodies is a beneficent provision of Nature, 
While we fear death, we cannot master the 
forces which will free us from death. To study 
anything closely enough to discover its secret 
is impossible, so long as one loathes and fears 
it. Not until our consciousness is changed 
from its fatal preoccupation with form, and 
made to concern itself more send more with the 
ONE POWER which governs the projection of forms 
into the conditions of time and space, can we 
be free. When we have become sufficiently 
aware of the Former, of the Transmuter, of the 
real Self, then we become aware also that our 
true being is one with that Eternal Being, 
From this point on we welcome problems. How- 
ever terrifying the face of circumstance, we 
know that dwelling within us is the Lord of 
Circumstance. He who is consciously aware of 
the true nature of the Self is preserved by 
that knowledge from all evil. (Keys 13, 14, 
15.) 

We have said that the regenerated man has a 
solar consciousness* Other occultists speak of 
his having a solar body* The two statements 
are really one* Yet there is danger that they 
may be misinterpreted# It is not meant that we 
somehow identify ourselves with a being whose 
organism is the solar system in which we live* 
Rather is it meant that we identify ourselves 
with the One Being whose body is the entire 
universe. 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-THREE 7 

It is true that we progress to this identi- 
fication by stages, and that one of those 
stages is that in which the true Self is known 
to be the Solar Logos whose brain in our solar 
system is the sun, and whose body is composed 
of all else within that solar system. Yet we 
do not stop with this. 

Furthermore, we arrive at this stage of 
realization as a consequence of a change in our 
own physical bodies, which enables them to 
receive impulses of superoonscious intelligence 
relayed to us from the solar brain of our par- 
ticular world system. When this awareness is 
perfected, we function as immediate expressions 
of the Solar Intelligence, and share Its per- 
fect f ourth-dimens ional awareness. 

An ordinary human body cannot act as an 
instrument for the Solar Intelligence, because 
there is not yet developed within it the organ 
of such awareness. This organ is the "single 
eye” to which Jesus referred in his cryptic 
statement* "The light of the body is the eye* 
if therefore thine eye be single, thy whole 
body shall be full of light," This is neither 
a metaphysical statement, nor a mere metaphor* 
The pineal gland is the single eye, and when it 
is in full development, instead of in the rudi- 
mentary state characteristic of most persons, 
it gives us a new order of vision. In that 
order of vision, one outstanding feature is 
direct cognition or perception of the absolute 
unity of existence. 

Ordinary sight is concerned with light and 
shade, with innumerable pairs of gyposites* 
The solar consciousness sees unity oiftiy» and 
that man or woman who, having developed the 
single eye, has a body capable of receiving the 
viorations of the solar consciousness, i 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-THREE 8 

thereby freed from the influence of all these 
pairs of opposites. 

Ordinarily, we think of ourselves as beings, 
and of the universe as something in contrast to 
ourselves. We see the universe as consisting 
of a vast number of things. The Spiritual 
Knower perceives the universe as ONE, and iden- 
tifies himself as that ONE, There remains no 
trace of otherness in his consciousness, 

I dent if ic at ion begins as an intellectual 
right classification. Before the full glory of 
the experience may come to us, we have to iden- 
tify ourselves correctly, have to perceive 
intellectually what is our true place in the 
cosmic order. This intellectual identification 
i3 an act of reason, and results in faith. The 
faith then becomes a potent suggestion, which 
so acts on subconsciousness that our todies are 
regenerated. Then the third eye, which is the 
single eye, opens, and we peroeive directly the 
full splendor of our real nature. We find no 
words for this, nor shall we waste time in a 
vain attempt to describe this transcendent 
experience. What is more to the point is that 
this first-hand knowledge of reality is not 
afar off for any reader of these pages who will 
actually dedicate himself to the work of becom- 
ing ripe, (Keys 19, 20, 21,) 

MEDITATIONS 

FIRST DAY: Keys 13, 17, 21, The person 
I was, even a moment ago, is no more, for the 
form of my existence is undergoing ceaseless 
modifications. The truth I see today was hid 
from me yesterday by the form assumed yesterday 
by my personal consciousness. The perfect 
realization toward which I move will find me 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-THREE 9 

yet more transformed. AS I CHANGE, TRUTH BE- 
COMES CLEARER TO ME, AND AT LAST I SHALL 
ACHIEVE PERFECT IDENTIFICATION WITH UNIVERSAL 
SPIRIT. 

SECOND DAY* Keys 14, 17, 20. Let me be free 
this day from the influence of the pairs of 
opposites. Truth is ONE, and not TWO. I am a 
center of expression for the ONE BEING which 
is, this moment, and in every moment, free from 
the dual ity of time and space* THE REAL SELF 
EQUILIBRATES ALL MY PERSONAL ACTIVITIES, RE- 
VEALS TRUTH TO ME, AND SETS ME FREE FROM 
MORTALITY. 

THIRD DAY* 15, 17, 19. My real Self solves 
all problems. The solutions reveal truth to 
me. Solutions may come, and do come, from 
sources wholly outside the limitations of my 
sensory awareness. I WELCOME PROBLEMS, BECAUSE 
THEY ARE NEW OPPORTUNITIES TO SEE TRUTH, AND TO 
MAKE MANIFEST, POWERS BEYOND THOSE AFFECTING MY 
PHYSICAL SENSES. 

FOURTH DAY* Keys 16, 17, 18. Ify personal 
existence is the expression of forces having no 
material basis. My personality is not a form, 
but a flux. My body is not a given thing, but 
an evolving instrument, being made ever finer 
for the uses of the Self. I RELY ON SPIRIT, 
NOT ON FORM* ON MOVEMENT, NOT ON STRUCTURE; 
EVEN IN MY PHYSICAL BODY I AM CHANGING DAILY 
INTO A MORE RESPONSIVE INSTRUMENT OF THE LIFE- 
POWER. 

FIFTH DAY* Keys 13, 14, 15, I cannot die, 
because I never was born. This incarnation of 
mine is but one of many stages of the Great 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-THREE 10 

Work* The only evil consists in the belief 
that one can stand still. I WELCOME EVERY 
CHANGE, BECAUSE I KNOW THAT MY TRUE SELF IS 
SHAPING MY PERSONALITY DAY BY DAY INTO A MEANS 
MORE ADEQUATE FOR THE SOLUTION OF EVERY PROB- 
LEM. 

SIXTH DAY* Keys 19, 20, 21« This person- 
ality of mine is even now experiencing the 
mental and physical transmutations which bring 
about regeneration. I am already a f ourth- 
dimentional immortal, not a three-dimensional 
mortal. My true Self is the Single Identity 
animating the whole uni verse. TODAY I AM A NEW 
CREATURE, AWAKENED FROM THE NIGHTMARE OF MOR- 
TALITY, CONSCIOUSLY ONE WITH THE SPIRITUAL 
REALITY OF ALL THINGS. 










TAROT INTERPRETATION 


LESSON TWENTY-FOUR. 

The Tarot tableau for this lesson, is 



Lay out the Keys as above. Inspect the tab- 
leau before you begin reading the lesson. The 
combinations are different from those to which 
you are accustomed* Let your subconsciousness 
receive the impression of the whole tableau at 
first. Then see what you can discover concern- 
ing its details, before turning this page. 

This is the first of the seven "Jupiter” 
magic squares, on which this lesson and the 
next six will be based. It is a symmetrical 
arrangement of numbers, from which is derived a 
magical figure called the Sigil of Jupiter, 

The sigil is made by connecting the central 
points of the sixteen cells of a Jupiter 
square. The center of the square numbered 0 is 
the beginning and end of the line forming the 
sigil. Straight lines connect the centers of 
the cells, in the order of the numbers from 0 
to 15. The resultant figure is shewn below. 
In ceremonial and talismanic magic this figure 
is employed in operations of Jupiter, It is 
then drawn with violet ink, paint or crayon, 
(See next page,) 


V 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 
LESSON TWENTY-FOUR 


2 



There are other magic squares of sixteen 
numbers, but this particular arrangement has 
been handed down to us as having special po- 
tency in Jupiter ian operations. Its harmonious 
character, considered merely as a balanced 
system of lines, is obvious at a glance. 

In these Jupiter squares, notice that the 
first and third, and second and fourth numbers 
on the diagonal lines are extremes, whose mean 
term is shown by the number between them. On 
the diagonal running from the upper right cor- 
ner to the lower left, 0 and 10 are extremes 
balanced by 5, and 5 and 15 are extremes bal- 
anced by 10, On the other diagonal 3 and 9 are 
extremes balanced by 6, while 6 and 12 are bal- 
anced by 9. 

Again, the sum of any two numbers diametri- 
cally opposed, as 0 and 15, 1 and 14, 4 and 11, 
or 7 and 8, is always the same. In this 
square, this constant total is always 15, Thus 
the whole square corresponds to the first stage 
of spiritual unfoldment, represented by Key 15, 
Thus we know that this square has to do with 
the initial recognition of bondage, the facing 
of a problem. It is connected also with the 
Q,abalistic ideas related to the 26th path on 
the Tree of Life, termed Renewing Intelligence. 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-POUR 3 

In meditations for this lesson, and the next 
six, the fundamental ideas will be taken from 
the four horizontal and two diagonal rows of 
Keys. We shall make use also of ideas suggest- 
ed by the Qabalistic meanings of the letters 
corresponding to the Keys. In reading the hor- 
izontal rows, we shall follow the Hebrew order, 
from right to left. The diagonal row from 
upper right to lower left will be read from 
bottom to top, and the other diagonal will be 
read from the upper left to the leaver right* 

”1 utter myself by seeing,” says The Book of 
Tokens , and in practical occultism we must 
remember always that the Heavenly Vision is the 
real cause of the Earthly Appearance. This 
physical universe is the embodiment of the men- 
tal seeing which is an essential quality of the 
Fiery Intelligence, pictured by the Tarot Fool. 
Not yet do we share that vision, for it is be- 
head at a level which to us is superconscious. 
Yet we are assured by the wise that the Spirit 
of Life in us is now and always the Seer of 
that glorious Beyond which looms up to incon- 
ceivable heights, transcending the utmost yet 
attained by humanity. (Key 0.) This Seer is 
with us always. It is the genius represented 
by Key 14. From it we derive all our aspira- 
tions. From it comes not only the impulse to 
advance, but also the power to go ahead. For 
the One Seer is. the One Actor also, and from 
that One*s action all our deeds are derived 
(Key 14). 

Again, this One is the dissolver of all de- 
lusion. Steadily it moves in its progress from 
the darkness of the Unknown toward the sunlight 
of the perfect manifestation. Endlessly it 
reaps the fruit of the past in the field of the 
present. To the unwise, it wears the grisly 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-FOUR 4 

\ 

aspect of death, but to knowers of reality it 
is the Great Harvester, who becomes, in another 
guise, the Sewer of the New Day. (Key 13.) 

The seed thus sown springs up in the rich 
fruitage of ideas and forms suggested by the 
ripening grain at the feet of the Empress* 
Even so, among the letters we are now consider- 
ing, does Daleth, symbol of the womb, follow 
Nun, which has for centuries upon centuries 
represented the Martian, phallic, masculine 
power* 

Thus our first series of Keys in this tab- 
leau ends with a Key corresponding to the 
fruitful mother, Venus. It is related psy- 
chologically to the creative function of sub- 
consciousness* Vision, experiment, action, and 
the formulation of new mental patterns e.re sug- 
gested by this series of Keys. Students who 
are familiar with astrology should note that 
the planetar;/ sequence represented consists of 
the iconoclastic Uranus, the expansive and 
orderly Jupiter, the transforming and disinte- 
grating Mars, and the formative and integrating 
Venus . 

The conjoined powers of Venus and Saturn are 
represented by the Key beginning the second 
row. Equilibrium is always the basis of the 
work of the practical occultist* Never does he 
seek to escape from the true order of the uni- 
verse* Never does he seek to evade it. Prac- 
tical occultism is living the law. It is 
strict conformity to the way things really and 
truly are. This requires true imagination 
(Venus) and concrete embodiment of that imagery 
in external forms of procedure (Saturn). 

Venus, again, as ruler of the formative and 
image-making power of subconsciousness, is dom- 
inant in the Key of the second row. But here 


TAROT HIT SRPKET AT I ON 

LESSON CTIENTY-FOUR 5 

her power is linked with that of the Moon, 
represented in Tarot by the High Priestess* If 
v re seek to square our lives with the true order 
of the universe, we must invoke the power of 
intuition. We must learn from our observation 
of what is below in the field of sensation, but 
we cannot know the meaning of what we observe 
unless it. be imparted to us from what Tarot 
pictures as the Hierophant. 

Yfhen we are so instructed, what really 
occurs is that we become partakers in the Life- 
power^ perfect memory of the significance of 
all, that exists * The One Spirit knows, at this 
very instant, the exact nature of the glorious 
opportunity which presents itself to us in the 
guise of a terrifying problem. It will share 
that knowledge with us, if we listen. Thus, 
and thus only, may we attain that fine balance 
of personal mental powers represented by the 
third Key of this second row. 

The harmony between the two modes of per- 
sonal mentality, self-consciousness and subcon- 
sciousness, and their happy relation to each 
other and to the superconscious Self, are the 
direct consequences of listening repeatedly to 
the Inner Voice, and of obeying its instruc- 
tion. Thus comes true discrimination, and thus 
c ernes ability to use the law represented by the 
last card of the second row. 

When we are always obedient to the Inner 
Voice, the suggestions transmitted to the human 
level of subconsciousness are symbolized by 
the woman in Key 8. They are always construc- 
tive, and they descend automatically to the 
subhuman levels typified by the lion. We 
do not have to trouble ourselves about this 
transmission. It works perfectly without any 
conscious interference on our part. All the 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-FOUR 6 

\ powers of nature obey us without question, when 
we obey the Inner Y^ice.^This, in the plainest 
of language, is the Great Secret of practical 
occultism. 

The third row of Keys begins with the Char- 
iot, related to the sign Cancer, and so to the 
combined influences of the Moon and Jupiter# 
He who would meet and solve his problems must 
continually remind himself that his personal 
existence is a vehicle of expression for the 
universal Lif e-power . Our personal lives are 
direct expressions of the cosmic order, and 
manifestations of a power ever victorious. Ho 
matter what the appearance of the moment may 
be, each of us is in exactly the situation 
which, at that moment, is requisite for the ex- 
pression of the perfect Order and Beauty of the 
One Being. Over us, ever observing our prog- 
ress, stands the Silent TiTatcher, lighting the 
upward path (Key 9)# 

Ho slightest detail of our daily lives can 
possibly be excluded from the sequence of 
Divine Manifestation. Whatever seems to be 
otherwise is merely evidence of temporary de- 
lusion, and even that delusion has its place in 
the Great Plan (Key 10) # 

Hot for one moment is the vigilance of the 
Supreme Self relaxed# Hot for one moment is 
there any cessation of the supervision which 
the Life-power exercises over the whole process 
of its self-manif estation, and that process 
includes the life history of every human being 
(Key 4 ). 

Thus the fourth row of Keys begins with the 
Hanged Man, symbol of the utter dependence of 
personal existence upon the support of the 
great Tree of Universal Life# The message of 
this Key is, here as always, the truth that we 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-FOUR 7 

must make conscious surrender of even the least 
details of personal existence to the super- 
vision of the Life-power. We must practice 
this, because it does not ”come naturalT' 1 All 
the superficial evidence of the senses is 
against it, and to overoome the influence of 
this sensory illusion, together with the hypno- 
sis of delusion which affects the race mind 
with the sense of separateness, continual rep- 
etition of the cons oious attitude of surrender 
is required* 

Then i t happens that surrender becomes 
seoond nature, -When this- is.. accomplished, one 
result is that we' begin, to be able to read the 
scroll of the Universal Memory* For it is the 
sense of personal separateness that prevents us 
from doing so now. That is to say, our belief 
that we are separate constitutes a suggestion 
whiolv is aooepted by the subconscious mind, and 
the response to that suggestion is what keeps 
us from reading that part of the High Priest- 
ess* scroll which was inscribed before our 
physical birth into this present incarnation. 
As soon as we realize that our present personal 
life is, in all respects, continuous with the 
stream of universal existence, we shall begin 
to recover knowledge of events which occurred 
before the date of our birth (Key 2), 

Such knowledge is often essential to the 
solution of the more important problems that 
confront us. Furthermore, as the inverted pen- 
tagram on the Devil's head implies, every 
problem is fundamentally one of ignorance, and 
the root of all ignorance is some form of the 
delusion of separateness* This ignorance is to 
be overcome by oonscious mental activity, at 
the level represented by the third Key in the 
fourth row of the square* 


TAROT INTERPRET AT ION 

LESSON TWENTY-FOUR 8 

The transforming power has its field of 
operation at the self-cons cions level# On 
the one hand* we have to be consciously and in- 
tentionally receptive to the descent of 
knowledge and power from superconscious levels# 
On the other hand, we must act intentionally 
and consciously as transmitters of that knowl- . 
edge and power to the plane of suconsciousness# 
Thus the matter of primary importance, as shown 
by the position of the Magician in the Tarot se- 
ries, and by the number on that Key, is really 
that of our location in the *osmic scheme. By 
this, we mean that everything depends on our 
appraisal of the piece of human personality in 
the- cosmic order# If we know where we are, if 
we understand the nature of our self-conscious 
mentality, if we know its powers and make right 
use of them, everything else follows automati- 
cally (Key 1)# 

This may sound almost too easy, but we must 
remember that the great Masters all declare, 
with Jesus: *1^ yoke is easy, and my burden is 
light#” This should be borne in mind, also, 
as we consider the final Key of this series. 
The fearsome aspect of the Devil is nothing 
but delusion. There is no reality in the uni- 
verse corresponding to this dreadful figure# 
F<r the perfect knowledge of the Life-power 
there are no problems whatever, nor any igno- 
rance at all# The true Self of you, at this 
very moment, knows just what you must do to be 
free from whatever form of bondage seems now 


TAROT INTERPRETAT ION 

LESSOR TWENTY-FOUR 9 

to limit you, Mentally relate yourself to that 
liberating power, and you will find the solu- 
tion of the problem (Key 15), 

MEDITATIONS 

FIRST DAY: Keys 0, 14, 13, £ The vision of 
my joyous destiny is even now perceived by my 
true Self, That Self directs the alchemical 
operation which transmutes my personality into 
a more adequate vehicle of its manifestation. 
In the field of my personal life it reaps the 
harvest of Yesterday and sows the seed of 
Tomorrow. MY EARTHLY LIFE TODAY IS THE REALI- 
ZATION OF THE HEAVENLY PATTERN. 

SECOND DAY: Keys 11, 5, 6, 8. Today I live 
the Law. I hear and obey the Inner Voice, 
Consciously and subconsciously, I am in harmony 
with ry true Self. ALL POWER IS GIVEN ME OF MY 
FATHER IN HEAVEN, 

THIRD DAY: Keys 7, 9, 10, 4. My personal 
life is the field of a cosmic manifestation, 
I move up-ward toward what I really am. My in- 
evitable destiny is release from every, form of 
delusion. MY BIRTHRIGHT’ IS PERFECT MASTERY OF 
CIRCUMSTANCES. 

FOURTH DAY: Keys 1£, 2, 1, 15. Today I re- 
nounce every appearance of separateness. This 
day’s thoughts and deeds are related to all 
that has ever gone before. I know my rightful 
place in the Great Whole. MY PRGBLEM IS MY 
OPPORTUNITY. 

FIFTH DAY: Keys 15, 10, 5, 0. I fear no 
evil. For this day’s experience is part of the 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-FOUR 10 

manifestation of a perfect order. Let me hear 
the Vrice that expounds its true meaning. LET 
ME SHARE NOW IN THE HEAVENLY VISION. 

SIXTH DAY: Keys 3, 6, 9, 12. The door of 
opportunity opens to me today. Let me have 
discrimination to perceive it. Let me remember 
alvrays that I advance steadily tovrand the 
heights of conscious mastery. FOR THIS, MY 
PERSONAL LIFE, IS BUT THE EARTHLY UTTERANCE OF 
THE HEAVENLY WORD. 


i. 




















i 













0 



4 -K-/S-I 
<\ -i ~ t-n, 
s- H - 10 - <a 

- a - 3-/3 


TARO' 


fe 1 


N 


RPRETATION 

J»tS56H ~XS 
Co'nb + dn'/' SuT-m-na^; o^- 3 ^ - 7 

CHvfco'nvc dll -f0\*>5 ifrcc-Vo* 7 , ** f>re.i\i 01 , 0 ^ 

‘f thru sgtncsj 0 ^ 3 

M«v< “ TKe Ch&riffV rekY^-Sflnts Yh*. |»oei' the £tn^«&r wtrkitijC’ 
Y*"4 the a£e nc^ ^ *VW £WjUcss 

7&ble&4 ^*>t re,dp£nds -Jo Indf 5 Y 3 


^ttiiudl ^c/p/ric^j — * 



^r- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 


LESS OH TViSlTTY-FIVE 
The Tartt tableau for this lessen- is 

4 14 15 1 

9 7 6 12 

5 .11 10 8 

16 2 3 13 - 

For the special purpose of these lessons, we 
are using the four horizontal rows of these 
magic squares, reading them from right to left* 
In formulating the meditations, the same read- 
ing is followed for the first four days. The 
meditation for the fifth day follows the diag- 
onal upward from left lower to right upper 
corner, and the meditation for the sixth day 
follows the descending diagonal from left upper 
to right lower corner. But it must be remem- 
bered this is by no means the only way to read 
the square* Every row may be read in either 
direction, and just as their addition is always 
the same, so is the meaning* Yet that meaning 
emerges from a different sequence of ideas, ac- 
cording to the direction of the movement along 
the line* The sequences not utilized in these 
lessons should be studied, as well as those 
which are the basis for this present verbal 
presentation of the teaching* 

For example, the outcome of the sequence 4, 
14, 15, 1 is precisely the same as that of the 
sequence 1, 15, 14, 4, and that outcome is 
represented by the number 34, which is the con- 
stant sum of every row in this particular magic 
square. That is to say, the constant meaning 
of all sequences in this square is represented 
in 'numbers by 7, considered as the expression 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-FIVE 2 

of 4 through the agency of 3. Or in Tarot, the 
constant meaning of all additions of these rows 
of Keys is summarized by the Chariot, consider- 
ed as being the representation of the power 
symbolized by the Emperor, working through the 
agency pictured as the Empress. 

What is important is to remember that there 
are many ways by which this result may be 
reached. There are four horizontal, four ver- 
tical, and two diagonal rows, all adding to 34, 
or ten i:i all. Since each of these may be read 
in two directions, the square shows twenty 
different ways of arriving at the same final 
result. * All twenty should b e considered, 
because no. two ways are precisely alike, since 
the progress of ideas in each instance follows 
a different order. The value of working out 
every sequence is, that although one arrives 
always at the same result, and thus repeats the 
fundamental idea continually, there are twenty 
different approaches to it, so that variety is 
secured, as well as repetition. 

This week we begin with the Magician and end 
with the Tower, so that the whole square is in 
some measure concerned with the second stage of 
spiritual unfoldment, symbolized by the latter 
Key. Notice also that the constant summation 
of the various rows is esoterically related to 
the number of Key 16, since the reduction of 16 
is the same as the reduction of 34, namely, 7. 

There can be no awakening for an inattentive 
man. He who is content with superficialities 
never reaches the second stage of unfoldment* 
This does not mean that some persons are doomed 
to eternal bondage. Y/hat we wish to point out 
is that all awakening is the consequence of 
aroused attention. Nobody remains forever con- 
tent with superficialities. But some awaken 
gently, while others are rudely 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-FIVE 3 

ful experiences -which force them to consider 
more attentively the nature of their surround- 
ings* Perhaps our earlier awakenings are all 
more or less of the sort pictured by Key 16 # 
The time comes, however, when our houses of 
delusion may be overthrown without the accom- 
paniments of terror suggested by the symbolism 
of that Key* In a measure, we are prepared for 
the event* Experience has taught us thai^ no 
problem is solved until some structure of igno- 
rance, some Tower of Babel, has been knocked 
down.^ Even then, it often happens that we are 
astounded when the event does come to pass. 
For years, perhaps, we have cherished some 
delusion. Then, all at once, we have another" 
glimpse of reality, and over goes one more 
stronghold of error. Something we always sup- 
posed to be true turns out to be just the 
opposite* 

Our power comes from above, and so do the 
higher Forms of knowledge, but it is at the 
self-conscious l^vel of our waking life that 
the transformations occur. Everything con- 
stituting our environment is subject to our 
self-conscious thought, and is a reflection of 
that thought. Self-consciousness is the Magi- 
cian, Jls the Transformer. We ao~not have to 
make it so, nor is occult training directed to 
this end. On the contrary, occult training is 
concerned solely with the right application of 
our inherent magical power (Key 1), 

Thus the first lesson to learn, whenever we 
are confronted by any appearance of restric- 
tion, by any semblance of bondage, is that this 
appearance is itself a form conjured up by our 
own magic power . Difficult as it is to aocept, 
the occult doctrine is unequivocal. ^SVERY 
APPEARANCE OF ADVERSITY IS BUILT UP B Y THE 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-FIVE 4 

MENTAL 1;JWER WORKING THROUGH THE PERSON TO 
WHOM THAI' APPEARANCE IS PRESENTED (Key 15)/^ 
Thus the true alchemist-magician looks upon 
no condition whatever as being really adverse* 
He has adopted what Rudolf Steiner somewhere 
calls the ’’confident attitude” toward his sur- 
roundings* He has no fear of circumstance, 
because he enjoys communion with the Lord of 
Circumstance, Thus anything which seems to be 
evil he regards with special interest. Like 
the shepherd in the New Testament parable* he 
is interested in these lost sheep of the House 
of Israel, To set in order what seems to be an 
example of disorder, is to treat evil as raw 
material for transmutation into the very forms 
of expression whiioh will best suit his purpose. 
This is the secret of hi3 work (Key 14), 

Occult practice, in other words, does not 
confer magic power, nor enable one' to attain 
it, What It does is to make us aware, through 
experience and reason, that we have magic pow- 
er; and then such training is concerned with 
the orderly exercise of the power we have, to 
the end that by such exercise we shall see 
objectively around us a set of circumstances 
which agrees with our mentally conceived pat- 
terns (Key 4), 

This does not mean, of course, that a true 
theurgist, or ”God-worker,” has power to impose 
on the world around him a pattern which repre- 
sents only his personal notions of the way he 
xvould like things to appear. Rather does it 
mean that he formulates patterns in accordance 
with the way things really are. He knows, in 
short, that he lives in a Universe on which he 
may depend for every good and perfect gift, and 
the geginning »f all his projects is the recog- 
nition of the absolute dependability of the 
laws and forces of the universe (Key 12), His 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TOENTY-FIVE 5 

practice leads also t o perfect reciprocal 
activity between the self-conscious and subcon- 
scious modes of his personal^ Tpentality, and to 
the harmonious relation of both to the super- 
conscious Self (Key 6). Thus he becomes a 
conscious vehicle of the Life-power and his * 
magic succeeds, because in every instance his 
personal” volition is but the expression of 
the true cosmic order (Key 7)* ”My will is to 
do the will of him that sent me, n is an accu- 
rate expression of the genuine theurgic state 
of mind (Key 9). 

The real theurgist is said to tame wild 
beasts, because he thinks of all the forces in 
his environment as being essentially friendly 
to him. For him. Nature is never an enemy, but 
always an ally (Key 8). The play of forces 
around him is seen to be the manifestation of 
the same laws which are at work in his own 
being; and more than this, he recognizes the 
highest and dominant power in the cosmic mech- 
anism as being identic&l with the Principle of 
Individuality at the heart of his own life 
(Key 10). He understands himself to be the in- 
carnate Law, and restores the Law-giver to His 
rightful place on the throne in the palace of 
human personality (Key 11). This understand- 
ing is his, not as a consequence of sterile 
speculation, not as the outcome of mere reason- 
ing, but as the result of a vivid interior 
perception, which has been described in these 
pages as hearing the Inner Voice (Key 5). 

In every ritual of initiation, the candidate 
passes through a mystical death, and this dis- 
solution refers to the passing away of the old 
concept of separate personality. The mortal 
separate man must die . He must be reborn as 
the immortal man, one with the Father, 
before he may exercise his magieal powers (Key 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-FIVE 6 

13). New mental imagery must take the place of 
the old race-thought. The very idea indicated 
by the word tt man n must be reconceived, and thus 
we find in the Apocalypse the statement: w To 
him that overccmeth I will give to eat of the 
hidden manna, and will give him a white stone, 
and in the stone a new name written, which no 
man knoweth saving he that receiveth it.” 
(Revelation: 2: 17)* 

Similarly, in various occult schools the 
initiate adopts a new name representing his 
highest aspiration, or the mental conception of 
himself which his work is intended to build 
into his personality (Key 3). Yet this new 
name is not really new. Rather is it a re- 
constitution or restoration of something which 
has been forgotten. Thus the Chaldean Oracle 
admonishes us: "Explore the river of the soul, 
whence, or in what order, you have come; so 
that although you have become a servant to the 
body, you may rise again to the Order from 
which you descended, joining works to sacred 
reason." 

Of like import is the parable of the Prodi- 
gal Son, where we read that he "came to him- 
self.” At the basis of all magical work is 
recollection of the real meaning and power of 
the Self (Key 2). The lightning-flash of 
inspiration which av/ak ens us, and at the same 
time overthrows our prisons of delusion, is 
always a flash of this self -recollection. When 
we remember what we really are, we escape from 
the bondage of the sense of separateness 
(Key 16). 

Nearly always our errors have their roots in 
fear; and generally these fears are part of the 
race inheritance* The occult point-of-view is 
just the reverse of what common sense, so-call- 
ed, dictates. The fourfold occult maxim runs. 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-FIVE 7 

KNOW, WILL, DARE, EE SILENT; but the raoe mind 
has little courage. Popular proverbs disguise 
ocwardico as prudence, and we arc all more or 
less infected by this poison (Key 16), Abso- 
lute faith is indispensable to the practical 
occultist. Faith established by most oareful 
■weighing of evidence, faith arrived at by most 
careful discrimination (Key 11), Such faith is 
established when persistent effort has made 
subconsciousness a clear mirror, reflecting 
superconsoious knowledge into the field of 
self-consciousness (Key 6), The beginning of 
such discrimination is the mental attitude the 
Magician typifies— continual endeavor to keop 
in touoh with the power source above the con- 
scious level, oombined with habitual alertness, 
'the fruit «f long practice in concentration, 
directed steadily to watchful consideration of 
every detail of self- conscious experience (£ey 
1 ). 

It •nnnot be said too often that magi© 
effects no -change whatever in the essential 
nature of things. Neither does it modify in 
the least the orderly sequence of cosmic mani- 
festation, The magician awakens himself from a 
dream of delusion, that is all. He changes his 
point-of-viow, Ee stops thinking of the world 
as his adversary, stops seeing it as something 
opposed to his will, instead, he sees it as 
his domain, as tho instrument of his self- 
expression, as something subordinate to the 
Spirit within him which is his true Self, See- 
ing it thus, he so experiences it (K-y 4) 
For such a person, all need for artificial 
means of self-protection oea.sos. For him all 
the counsels of cowardice which the world calls 
’’prudence” have no meaning. He rosts secure in 
the consciousness that even at this moment his 
personality is a vehicle for the power of the 


TAROT INTER? EST AT I ON 

LESSON TjVENTY-FIVE 8 

ever-victorious Lord of Creation (Key 7). He 
has transferred his consciousness from the 
outer rim of the Tftheel of Fortune, with its 
succession of ups and downs, to the spiritual 
center where there are no fluctuations (Key 
10)* Hot even death can frighten him, for when 
he has arrived at this state of consciousness 
he has made contact with that 7/hich is unaf- 
fected by any external change whatever. In 
that contact he finds that even death is an 
aspect of the activity of the One Self* For 
the skeleton reaper of Key 13 is, in fact, a 
representation of the transforming power #f 
that Self, even as the other Keys of the series 
are representations «f other aspects of the 
same power (Key 13)* 

Such are some of the meanings of this tab- 
leau, but they do not exhaust the significance 
of tho Keys, You will do well to make entries 
in your occult notebook concerning any point 
which occurs to you as you look at the Keys* 
In your daily practice, it may be well to use 
only tho four Keys concerned with the day f s 
meditation, during the last five minutes of the 
practice period* But at the beginning of each 
practice period the entire magic square should 
be laid out, and not less than five minutes 
should be devoted to careful inspection of the 
Keys, and observation of their relations to one 
another. 

An other hint. In every row of Keys notice 
what Key links any particular Key to the one 
which follows it in tho row. For example, in 
the top row, the first card is Key 1 and the 
seeond is Key 15. The link between these two 
is Key 14. But the- link between Keys 15 and 14 
is Key 1 ; and that between Keys 14 and 4 is Key 
10. Follow out this hint with the other rows. 


MEDITATIONS 


FIRST DAYi Keys 1, 15, 14, 4. lama direct 
agent of the Limitless Life. The world I see 
is the projection of my own mental patterns. 
My true Self transmutes every semblanoe of 
adversity into a moans for the perfect manifes- 
tation of my heart’s desire. I RULE MY DOMAIN. 

. SECOND DAY: Keys 12, 6, 7, 9. Because I am 
essentially one with the Source of all exist- 
ence, all things work together for my good. 
The elements of nry personal consciousness are 
in harmony with themselves and with the super- 
consoious Life which is their Souroo. My 
personal volition is net of myself, hut is a 
calm expression of the universal order. THE 
LIGHT THAT LIGHTETE EVERY MAN SHIRES ON MY 
PATH TODAY. 

THIRD DAY: Leys 8, 10, 11, 5. All Nature 
and all her forces are my allies. The motive 
power of the cosmic mechanism is seated in my 
heart. I am the incarnate Law. THE Y/ORD OF 
POWER UTTERS ITSELF WITHIN THE SANCTUARY OF MY 
INNER LIFE. 

f FOURTH DAY : 13, 3, 2, 16. Toaay I die to 
all the delusions of the past. The New Imago 
comes to life in my heart of hearts. I recol- 
lect my true place in the universal order. 
I WAKEN FROM DELUSION. 

FIFTH DAY: Keys 16, 11, 6, 1. I dare to bo 
what I truly am* ily faith is immovable. For I 
know what must appear as the inevitable conse- 
quence of what I have already discovered. IT 
IS MY PREROGATIVE TO BE AN ADMINISTRATOR OF THE 
COSMIC WILL. 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-FIVE 10 

SIXTH DAY: Keys 4, 7, 10, 13. The Spirit of 
Life which I am, rules all things. It is ever 
victorious. It is even now the master of every 
condition, THIS DAY I DISSOLVE ALL ILLUSION. 


5Y\ DWeta^-e^ 

dous rAftr S UM MATldH 3& 



INTERP 

Ma Ti 7L£ GlY&n 


n r 

< 

\ 


TATI ON 


l£SS6K 26- 

3$ ^ II. 

The ZO twdyS reading cards iS ThWS aiwJdyS TcpreSen^eii 
iS JuSt(Cfc «>) vuoriring as Th* power o -f STRENGTH Cs) +hr» 

+ he agency o-f Jm Afe/am 7/oN C3) EMPRESS, 


Corresponds + o The 3rd $idg° oj si’,rif<i j.1 v/ifa/dme n+ 

T«' jareSenTed by A'ey /7- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 


LESSON TWENTY-SIX 

The Tarot tableau for this lesson is: 


5 

15 

16 

2 

10 

8 

7 

13 

6 

12 

11 

9 

17 

3 

4 

14 


Its oonstant summation is 38* Thus the 
meaning of the twenty possible ways of reading 
the rows of cards is always represented by Key 
11, Justice, considered as the working of the 
power represented by Key 8 through the agency 
symbolized by Key 3. This square corresponds 
also to the third stage of spiritual unfcldment 
as represented by Key 17. 

Thus we know that the constant significance 
of this square has to do with the manifestation 
of the Faithful Intelligence, represented by 
the letter Lamed and by Key 11* But we know 
also that the meaning of the square is limited 
to those aspects of the Faithful * Intelligence 
which are the outcome of the operation of the 
Intelligence of the Secret of Works (Key 8) 
through the agency of the Luminous Intelligence 
(Key 3)o We know, too, that the whole tableau 
must relate to the unveiling of truth in the 
practice of meditation (Key 17)* 

Here we may also make further application 
of the principle behind the hint given at the 
bottom of page 8, in the preceding lesson. 

Since the summation of every row of Keys in 
this square is 38, and may be represented by 
placing Keys 3 and 8 side by side, it is evi- 
dent also that Key 5 has to be taken into 
consideration in studying this tableau, because 
Key 5 is the link between Keys 3 and 8. 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-SIX 2 

Meditation unveils truth, and thus estab- 
lishes faith* Meditation is also a practice 
■which utilizes the law that all subhuman forms 
of universal energy are under the control of 
human subconsciousness* This law, consciously 
recognized and utilized to develop creative 
imagination, is what enables us to establish 
the true magical faith— the faith which moves 
mountains, overcomes disease, banishes poverty, 
makes for happiness* Not blind faith, however# 
The woman seated on the throne of Justice wears 
no blindfold# The faith of the occultist is 
based on tried and tested knowledge. His faith 
is an imaginative extension into the future of 
that which he actually knows now* The true 
magical faith is confident expectation that 
what really is will continue to be what it is# 
This is Just the opposite to the blind faith 
which puts up petitions to a God who is sup- 
posed to be susceptible to flattery* To ask 
God to ward off calamity, to plead with Him for 
special favors, is invariably to pray amiss# 
For such prayer assumes that He is the author 
of calamity, or that He is capricious* 

To be sure, occult doctrine agrees with the 
prophet Isaiah in declaring that the One Life- 
power is the source of all conditions, includ- 
ing those we call evil* Certain it is, also, 
that the prayer of faith is answered, even 
though’ 4 the God to whom it is addressed be 
wrongly conceived* N o one who has given 
thoughtful attention to this subject can fail 
to be impressed by the incidents in the life of 
su#h a man as George Mueller, who conducted 
several orphanages in England on the assumption 
that God answers prayer. Yet an occult student 
would find it difficult to believe in the actu- 
al existence of a God such as the one to whom 
George Mueller addressed his prayers. 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-SIX 3 

7«hat is the explanation? Simply that 
Mueller’s faith, blind though it was, had in it 
an element of truth. Nothing could shake his 
conviction that God is an unfailing source of 
supply for any good work. Mueller’s faith, in 
short, was better than his theology. Nor 
should we overlook the important point that his 
faith never wavered, no matter what the appear- 
ances might be. Thus he never prayed that 
calamity might be averted. On the contrary, 
all his prayers were affirmative. He never 
lest his vision of the Life-power as a treasury 
of inexhaustible abundance. 

True magical faith has the same steadfast 
quality, because a practical occultist accumu- 
lates s o many, evidences that the Life-power is 
dependable. i_Thus he never doubts that the 
mental patterns he conceives will be fully 
realized as objective conditions, manifest on 
the physical plan e, j 

The beginning of his faith is in recollec- 
tion. By careful examination of the memory 
record of his own personal experience, he 
learns to discern the operation of law in the 
events of his life. This careful examination 
of his own personal past is a regular part of 
his meditation practice. Every day, he reviews 
the events of that day, that he may see how the 
law has been manifest in those events; and he 
also devotes much time to examining the events 
of his earlier years, carrying himself back to 
his earliest memories (Key 2). As a result of 
this practice he overcomes many of his earliest 
delusions. He has now the perspective of a 
wider experience and a higher type of knowl- 
edge. Thus he is able to see how erroneous 
were many of the suppositions he once mistook 
for truths (Key 16). He recalls instances of 
seeming adversity, and sees that often the very 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-SIX 4 

obstacles and limitations which distressed him 
were the actual causes of his real advance 
(Key 15). When, in addition to the practice of 
recollection, he adds the practice of listen- 
ing to the Inner Voice, he soon begins to 
understand how true it is that he has been 
under guidance, even in those periods of his 
life when he seemed to be walking in utter 
darkness (Key 5)* 

Thus he begins to understand the working of 
the law of transformation. He learns the 
futility of the ignorant desire to keep condi- 
tions as they are. He sees how the law of 
eternal progress demands that old forms must 
give place to new. Thus he comes eventually to 
discover the mystery of life behind the veil of 
death, for one certain result of meditation is 
recovery of. definite memories of past incarna- 
tions j and once the student has seen for 
himself that his present life is but one of a 
series, all fear of death leaves him (Key 13), 
From that time forward he understands that the 
ephemeral personality is a vehicle for the 
eternal .Self (Key 7), As he continues his 
practice of recollection and meditation, it 
becomes increasingly evident to him that the 
outer conditions of his personal experience 
have been always the objectifications of his 
mental attitudes (Key 8), 

Furthermore, he discovers that even those 
mental attitudes which were pain-bearing were 
beneficent, in that they brought him corrective 
experience. Then he sees that even his mental 
unfoldment is a cosmic as well as a personal 
process. He traces his progress upward from 
earlier states of comparative ignorance to his 
present stage o f better understanding, and 
perceives that every step was inevitable. From 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-SIX 5 

then on he has no doubt of the perfect comple- 
tion of the process (Key 10) • 

In the earlier stages of spiritual develop- 
ment there is usually a strong sense of effort, 
even of struggle. For in those early stages 
the delusion of separateness is yet strong 
within us. But all sages testify with one 
voice that this sense of effort is itself 
delusive. It is not we who do the work. The 
power of the One Self carries us upward, and we 
are always under its beneficent supervision 
(Key 9), The practical occultist learns this 
truth by car ef Tilly examining the record of his 
own past life, and by careful observation of 
the lives of his contemporaries. Thus he 
learns that every human personality is a direct 
expression of the law which maintains the per- 
fect equilibrium of the cosmic order (Key 11), 

A direot consequence of this knowledge is 
the mental attitude of complete acquiescence. 
The true Initiate knows that the law is at work 
because he has seen it in various phases of his 
own life, and has observed it in the lives of 
others. Thus he surrenders himself to it with- 
out any reservation whatever (Key 12), 

This, of course, does not come all at once. 
There must be steady practice. The records of 
memory must be scanned with great care. They 
must be stripped of all disguise. The outcome 
of this occult practice, which is not unlike 
the catharsis employed in psycho-analysis, is 
to establish a harmonious reciprocal relation 
between the self-conscious and subconscious 
elements of the personal mental life. The per- 
fected condition thus attained is represented 
in the symbolism of Key 6, 

It will not escape the attention of the 
alert student that right meditation is really 
the work which leads to the Knowledge and Con- 


TAEOT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-SIX 6 

versation of the Holy Guardian Angel. More, 
whenever right meditation is established, one 
perceives that the personal life is, and has 
been always, an alchemical operation directed 
by that Angel, That is to say, it is not we 
who make progress, but rather that our improved 
state of consciousness, with its accompanying 
increase in our ability to control the condi- 
tions of our environment, is the outcome of the 
operation of the true Self upon its vehicle, 
our personality* 

There is a hint of this in the words of 
Jesus* n I, if I be lifted up, will draw all men 
unto me.” For these words imply the presence 
of a power superior to the personal man Jesus, 
and that power, which Jesus called "Father,” 
is truly the Divine Operator who tempers our 
personal chemsitry so that we become more suit- 
able vehicles for expressing what It really is 
(Key 14). 

No part of our personal equipment is separ- 
ate from the universal Being. Do we see things 
as they really are? Then we are but sharing 
the Divine Vision* Our personal command of 
circumstance is none other than 1 the Universal 
Dominion, expressed in the conditions of time 
and space which constitute our personal envir- 
onment (Key 4), Even the subconscious gesta- 
tion of mental images, in consequence of which 
no w ideas come into being within our field of 
personal awareness, is really a universal pro- 
cess. For there is no plane of being where the 
universal Life-power is not present, nor is 
there any phase of activity in which it is not 
the real Actor (Key 3). 

Truth itself is identical with the One 
Spirit, and though it may seem to us, at first, 
that we uncover truth by meditation, the time 
will come when we understand that we are dis- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-SIX 7 

posed by the One Self to adopt the practice of 
meditation* Thus we begin to realize that any 
man in meditation is merely a specific example 
of the method whereby the real nature of the 
One Life unveils itself to human consciousness, 
God in us unveils Himself to Himself (Key 17), 

Thus when Patanjali says meditation is an 
unbroken flow of knowledge in a particular 
object, reflection makes it evident that true 
meditation is participation in the One Spirit *s 
unbroken flow of knowledge in all things. 
Really to meditate, then, is to be identified, 
during meditation, with the Divine Conscious- 
ness of some aspect of reality. This, indeed, 
is why all genuine occult literature lays so 
much stress on the importance of meditation 
(Key 17), In meditation, the personal menta- 
tion, always intermittent and spasmodic, is 
wholly suspended. Thus a sage in Samadhi is. in 
a state of trance; and in the deepest stages 
the trance is so complete that it counterfeits 
death (Key 12). 

Yet this suspension of personal activity is 
accompanied by a tremendous enhancement of real 
consciousness. The personal vehicle is at 
rest. The senses are completely quiescent. 
Yet the Self is wide awake, and there is no 
cessation of Self-consciousness. He who 
emerges from the trance of true meditation does 
not ask ”Where am I?” Neither does he make any 
inquiries as to what he has said or done, for 
he has never lest consciousness for a moment. 

Vi/hat has happened has been that his con- 
sciousness has been functioning at a higher 
level. Prom that level he invariably brings 
back wi-th him definite knowledge, and equally 
definite ability to exercise power beyond the 
limits of ordinary personal consciousness (Key 
7). "For such an one has, in Samadhi, remember- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-SIX 8 

ed what he really is, and the glory and power 
of that recollection manifest themselves (Key $) 

Recall, then, what was said early in this 
lesson. The beginning of meditation is careful 
examination of the memory record of your per- 
sonal existence. Combined with this must be 
the attitude of listening for the comment of 
the Inner Voice, as it explains the signifi- 
cance of that record. This must be a daily 
practice (Key 5). The result will be that you 
will gain knowledge of the Great Secret. This 
knowledge can never be imparted adequately by 
human words* Only its bare outline has been 
given in ary occult writing. It is symbolized 
in Tarot by Key 8. From the inner revelation 
of this Great Secret, the practical occultist 
derives his open-eyed, magical faith (Key 11), 
The immediate outcome of that faith is what 
medieval writers on magic called the Knowledge 
and Conversation of the Holy Guardian Angel, 
To know that Guiding Presence, to share in its 
perception^ to receive through it the wisdom 
and power of the Pure Spirit— this is the con- 
sequence of meditation (Key 14), 

MEDITATIONS 

FIRST DAYs Keys 2, 16, 15, 5. I remember 
today what I really am. This recollection en- 
ables mo to destroy erroneous mental construc- 
tions. I face my problems gladly, for they are 
my opportunities to demonstrate power. MY LIFE 
THIS DAY IS A LESSON IN THE MYSTERIES OF THE 
HIGHER LAW. 

SECOND DAY: Keys B£,l#. All trans- 

formations of circumstance are for my good. My 
body and my environment are plastic vehicles 
for the limitless power and wisdom of Eternal 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

' LESSON TWENTY-SIX 9 

Spirit. They are the out-picturing of my vis- 
ion of the Self, THE LIFE OF THIS DAY IS A 
CYCLE OF THE ETERNAL EXISTENCE. 

THIRD DAY: Keys 9, 11, 1$, 6. It is not I 
who do this day’s work, not I who enjoy this 
day’s pleasures, not I who experience this 
days difficulties. All these events are part 
of the balancing of Heaven’s accounts. I am 
but the witness of the operation. LET ME 
QUIETLY OBSERVE THE PERFECT WORK. 

FOURTH DAY: Keys 14, 4, 3, 17. I submit 
joyfully to the tests this day brings. Through 
me the Universal Dominion expresses its perfect 
command of circumstance. It works below the 
surface of my consciousness to develop more 
beautiful forms of expression. GOD IN ME 
UNVEILS HIMSELF TO HIMSELF. 

FIFTH DAY : Keys 17, 12, 7, 2. Truth itself 
is the basis of my personal existence. Nothing 
can separate mo from its unfailing support. No 
slightest detail of my personal life but is a 
manifestation of Universal Spirit. I REMEMBER 
MY CREATOR. 

SIXTH DAY: Keys 5, 8, 11, 14. Be Thou my Guide, 
0 Teacher of all teachers I Let me be strong in 
Thy strength. Let me bo faithful in act, in 
thought, in word. I AM OVERSHADOWED BY THE PRO- 
TECTING PRESENCE OF THE ALMIGHTY. 


CotlSfAHT So MM fit /ON 42, 


H+h Sj>iuHal be Y&lo f> trt&ifh 

' TAROT 


INTERPRETATION 

r ,ri: " 'i f". 2 


fr^e Y.Vor? li <» spiral power- whereby A s -/rd.l Flu'J »* 
torw/eTisecJ i-n+o ible, ©/rer n*< f ° r m_s • 


Meta-pta si'cai /i'Ah-i shined -fhrtf- p»ne*,l gi»n<i 3hd tner 1 £» ^ r? 

sithi* ..-Jll .-• I.'te^lens ***»< **"*- 

lira / sifl+ ^awe ^ 

^ ^ ft 


Control so^v an^ htndr tttYfcvm ra 

sight' Mercury ,'s Al<£ "' 
h« hao ignited with impress **3 


eW> r *s Md£/c/<a* aiic-n 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 


LESSON TWENTY-SEVEN 
The Tarot tableau for this lesson is 


6 

16 

17 

3 

11 

9 

8 

14 

7 

13 

12 

10 

18 

4 

5 

15 


The constant summation is 4§, indicating Key 
6, the Lowers, considered as the operation of 
the principle symbolized by Key 2, working 
through that represented by Key 4. This square 
corresponds also to the fourth stage of spiri- 
tual unfoldment, represented by Key 18. 

As you know. Key 6 represents the Disposing 
Intelligence corresponding to the letter Zain. 
Key 2 stands for the Uniting Intelligence, 
attributed to G-imel. Key 4 is the Tarot symbol 
for the Constituting Intelligence corresponding 
to Heh. The Book of Formation says the Uniting 
Intelligence is the H essence of glory." This 
essence is mind-stuff, symbolize-d by the robe 
ef the High Priestess, blue and shimmering, 
because it represents the "Water" of the al- 
ohomists, the Astral Fluid which solidifies in 
all the forms of the physical plane. Thus this 
lesson has to do with the moons whereby the 
Astral Fluid is utilized through the activity 
of the Constituting Intelligence, which is said 
to "constitute creative force in pure dark- 
ness," The Constituting Intelligence operates 
principally through the organs having to d* 
with the function of sight. This phase of the 
Life-power's activity is what leads to true 
vision. 

The power of true vision is a spiritual pow- 
er, whereby the Astral Fluid is condensed int • 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-SEVEN 2 

visible, external forms. The sight center in 
the brain, when it is perfected, and when it is 
able to exercise its highest functions, because 
metaphysical light is streaming through and 
energizing the pineal body, is like a lens 
through which Astral Light, in fluidic form, is 
actually projected into the outer conditions of 
the physical plane* Read very attentively 
here, for this is the essential secret of true 
magic, or theurgy. He who sees truly is an 
immediate instrument of the Constituting Intel- 
ligence which actually builds the forms and 
conditions of the external v^orld. The myster- 
ious power of transformation exerted by adepts, 
the power of performing miracles, the power to 
heal sick bodies, the power to, bring about 
changes in the constitution of physical forms, 
is none other than this. 

To see truly is to be able to control the 
positive and negative currents of the Astral 
Light. These are the solar and lunar currents 
of Prana, concerning which a Hindu book says: 
n To those men who practice, and thus always 
keep the sun and moon in proper order, knowl- 
edge of the past and future becomes as easy as 
if they were in their hand,” In the alchemical 
books, also, the Great Work is said to consist 
in right control of the Sun and Moon. Note the 
implication here. The Sun and Moon are, re- 
spectively, the luminaries of day and of night, 
the sources of light whereby we are enabled to 
see. Their light is the basis of our power of 
vision. Thus to control the solar and lunar 
currents is to control our sight power. Hence 
the alchemical books tell us the Great Work is 
performed by the Sun and Moon, with the aid of 
Mercury. 

You will remember that the Disposing Intel- 
ligence attributed to Zain is also related to 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-SEVEN 3 

the Mercurial sign G e mini, represented by Key 
6 # In Tarot, Mercury is the Magician, and you 
have been taught that the Emperor is the same 
as the Magician— -that the Emperor 1 £ the Magi- 
cian, after the latter f s union with the High 
Priestess has transformed her into the Empress, 
who bears his children. Thus Mercury, the 
planet ruling sight, according to astrology, is 
occultly connected with the letter Heh, al- 
though that letter corresponds also to the sign 
Aries, ruled by Mars* 

The head and brain, and particularly the 
eyes *and the sight center, are the instruments 
of what is personified as Mercury* The force 
at work through these centers is the Mars ener- 
gy. Thus in Key 1, we see the Magician wearing 
a red outer garment, and red is the color of 
Mars. Again, in our color scale, the tint as- 
signed to Gemini is orange, and on the Tree of 
Life, tlie same color is given to Splendor, the 
eighth Sephirah, which is the "Sphere of Mer- 
cury*" Orange is the mixture of red, the color 
of Mars, and yellow, the color assigned in our 
scale to Mercury* All this may seem somewhat 
involved and technical, but it is included here 
for the benefit of students who have special 
aptitude for following up clues leading to the 
solution of alchemical and magical problems *. 
R e aders whose bent lies in other directions 
need only remember that the essential fact 
indicated by all these correspondences is the 
fact that the mental part of true vision is 
Mercurial, while the force involved is what 
astrology represents by Mars. 

Seeing truly is as much' an act of imagina- 
tion as it is a manifestation of the laws of 
optics. ' Our physical vision has to be supple- 
mented by mental imagery (Key 3). The percep- 
tion of true relationships is supersen«ual, the 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY- SEVEN 4 

consequence of me4itation. To see truly re- 
quires the correlation of all cur sense s, and 
the sublimation cf their reports into a higher 
order of knowing (Key 17)* From superficial 
sense knowledge wo gain only material f«rr * 
structure of error, certain sooner or later to 
be overthrown by a sudden influx of light fr-em 
super conscious levels (Key 16)* The balance 
of conscious and subconscious activities sym- 
bolized by the Lovers cannot be maintained 
while the sense of separateness persists, for 
while we are imprisoned in that delusion the 
conscious and subconscious phases of our per- 
sonal mentality are, so to say, in disguise* 
Thus the falling figures in Key 16 are shown 
clothed, but in Key 6 the man and the woman are 
nude, to show that neither hides anything from 
the other. 

Before the Great Work is finished, it seems 
to us as if we* are making various experiments; 
but when the operation reaches its term, we 
know the personality itself has been the sub- 
ject of the transmutation worked by the true 
Self, from superconscious levels (Key 14). The 
conscious mind is only a transmitter of light 
from above* Thus, in the Tarot tableau given 
in TAROT FUN DAMENT AL S J the Magician is placed 
ever Strength, to show that the subconscious 
modifications come immediately from him; but at 
the same time he is shown lifting his right 
hand, holding the wand, and pointing downward 
with his left hand, to indicate that he is 
merely a transmitter cf energy drawn from 
ob eve, which he directs to planes below* 

The power, therefore, which tames the lion 
in Key 8, has its origin in the superconscious* 
It comes from the height where stands the Her- 
mit, and its direct effect is concerned with 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-SEVEN 5 

processes of body-building related to the zodi- 
acal sign Virgo. The progress of ai^ human 
being along the Path of Return which leads ~bo 
adeptship, and from adeptship to mastery, is 
really a series of bodily transformations. It 
is a chemical process of purification and sub- 
limation, which results in the weaving of a 
finer and subtler vehicle for the Spirit (Key 
9). It is also a process which brings about 
the elimination of the grosser elements of the 
physical organism, and the fine adjustment of 
all the forces within it (Key 11). 

Our personal unfoldment is more than person- 
al. It is a special manifestation of universal 
lavra and forces, in the field of action repre- 
sented by the life of a particular personality. 
The whole universe manifests within and through 
each of us (Key '10. Our lives are always 
utterly dependent on the cosmic lifej but until 
we reach a certain stage of unfoldment # we do 
not know this. We come to this stage, and then 
we become aware of our dependence, and gladly 
submit ourselves to the cosmic life (Key 12). 
This restilts in the utter dissolution of fhlse, 
seemingly separated personality, and this dis- 
solution is the "mystic death" (Key 13). It 
is a transfer of consciousness from the vehicle 
to THAT which is the rider in the vehiole. It 
is a change from the bustle and disquiet of 
separateness to the still calm of the One Life. 
Therefore is the chariot, in Key 7, shown at 
rest, with the two sphinxes oouohant. 

In reality, then, there is no adversary. As 
man progresses in understanding, he synthesizes 
the hosts of devils imagined by his ancestors 
into one Prince cf Darkness. Yet even this 
Enemy is a figment of man’s imagination. Just 
as a page of cipher mamis-oivipt- sontains inevit- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-SEVEN 6 

ably the clues enabling a cryptographer to 
decipher it, so do all the semblanoes of antag- 
onism which the universe presents t o the 
uninitiated reveal bo the better instructed the 
truth that all things are really working to- 
gether for the liberation of man*s spiritual 
powers (Key 15), 

■ Sooner or later, every human being reaches 
the stage of unfoldment where the meaning of 
life is made known, where the significance is 
revealed, where the Yfay of Liberation is made 
plain. The Inner Voice speaks, and as we 
listen and obey, delusion vanishes (Key 15), ' 

Then we see all things as they really are* 
This true vision, which seems to set everything 
in order, is really perception of an order 
which is eternally present. The vision does 
not impose order in place of disorder, though 
that is what seems to happen when the results 
of true vision are noticod by those who, as 
yet, are unable to see truly. Just as the out- 
lines of objects are not really blurred, though 
they seem vague to a sufferer from astigmat- 
ism, so the universal processes are never 
disorderly, nor ever antagonistic to human wel- 
fare* and when our vision is corrected we 
simply see the order which has been there all 
the while (Key 4), 

This better seeing is the result of a defin- 
ite bodily transformation. It is brought about 
by the sublimation of the natural b ody — by a 
gradual alteration in the body-chemistry and 
structure, which makes the physical organism a 
suitable vehicle for the manifestation of rates 
of vibratory activity higher than those ex- 
pressed through the physical organism of the 
merely natural man (Key 18). 

The fact that adeptship and mastery are con- 
sequences of profound alterations in physical 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-SEVEN 7 

©hemistry and structure cannot be too strongly 
emphasized, for in these days there is a ten- 
dency to accept the error that liberation is a 
matter of mind alone— or, at least, a matter 
having to do with higher planes, to the exclu- 
sion of the physical (Key 18), The mystic 
death mentioned on a preceding page is a real 
dissolution of physical cells— an elimination 
of cells impregnated by the consciousness of 
separateness (Key 13), The elimination i s 
automatic, to be sure. In large measure, it is 
imperceptible; yet it is none the less actual. 
For when the animal nature is brought under 
©ontrol, it ceases to be the animal nature 
(Key 8), The initial impulses which effect 
this thorough-going transformation are pass- 
ed down into the organic level from the human 
level of subconsciousness., and they follow 
ohanges in our mental imagery, changes effected 
by acts of concentration (Key 3), 

Continual practice in discrimination, con- 
tinual exercise ©f intellectual power, to the 
end that the functions of conscious and' sub- 
conscious levels of the personal life may be 
rightly exercised, is required to effect these 
Changes, This may seem to contradict what has 
just been said, to the effect that the work is 
really performed by the Higher Self, The con- 
tradiction, however, is only apparent. In Key 
6, it is the power of the angel above the man 
and woman which is specialized in their partic- 
ular activities. The angel, therefore, is 
understood as being the real Actor. Neverthe- 
less, what is below him acts also. To say the 
One Self does the work is by no means to 
absolve ourselves from the duty of effort. So 
long as effort seems necessary, so long it _is * 
necessary. The illusion of separateness is not 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-SEVEN 8 

what we are working against, but the delusion 
which fails to recognize the illusion as such, 
and fails also to understand how that illusion 
is necessary to the Life-power's self-expres- 
sion in the universe and in the life of man 
(Key 6). 

The real Self of every human being is none 
other than the Eternal Watcher, pictured in 
Tarot as the Hermit, But so long as one is not 
completely identified with that One, the illu- 
sion o f separateness persists, and this 
requires us to act as if our own practice and 
our own efforts were what bring about the 
ohanges through which we attain to liberation 
(Key 9), 

Whether we know it or not, v/e are utterly 
dependent on the universal Life-power, Whether 
we know it or not, we do nothing of ourselves. 
Knowing this marks a definite stage of spiri- 
tual unfoldment. We ripen into it, as a fruit 
which is acid and poisonous in its green state 
ripens into sweetness and healthfulness in due 
season (Key 12), 

With such knowledge comes a new attitude 
toward seeming adversity, toward the criticism 
of others, and especially toward the mental 
state of those who misjudge and calumniate us. 
The unripe person hates his adversaries, longs 
for a day when he shall bo freed from all 
adversities, damns those who speak ill of him, 
and, unless he is perfectly comfortable, ques- 
tions the justice of cosmic law. He who is 
ripe truly loves his enemies, knows that no 
proverb is truer than the saying, "Sweet are 
the uses of adversity," pities the mental dark- 
ness of those who misunderstand and condemn 
him, and looks upon discomfort as a signal that 
he has an adjustment to make, somewhere in his 
personal mechanism (Key 15). 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-SEVEN ' . . 9* 

Persons attracted to Tarot and similar stud- 
ies are approaching ripeness. They have had 
glimpses of a higher state of human existence 
than that which is pictured to us by our daily 
newspapers. Thus they have attracted the no- 
tice of those riper men and women who are ahead’ 
of us on the Path of Return. From those riper- 
elder brothers and sisters of mankind comes all. 
such teaching as this. It is based on their 
own experience, an experience we may share, i£ 
we choose. 


MEDITATIONS 

FIRST DAY: Keys 3, 17, 16, 6. The harvest 
of wisdom ripens in the field of my subcon- 
sciousness. Day by day my vision of truth 
becomes clearer. I welcome the overthrow of my 
former errors. TEE OVERSHADOWING PRESENCE 
DISPOSES ME TO FAITHFULNESS. 

SECOND DAY: Keys 14, 8, 9, 11. In this 
day f s experiences the One Life refines and pur- 
ifies my personality. I am made whole by the 
Universal Medicine. The One Will forms my 
flesh and blood, according to its perfect 
pattern. THE LAW OF LIBERTY’ SETS ME FREE. 

THIRD DAY: Keys 10, 12, 13, 7. ' The Life- 
power already is all that I want it to be. Its 
power is the immovable basis of all my personal 
achievement. That power dissolves everything 
in my personality that seems to obstruct its 
free self-expression. I AM BEING FASHIONED 
INTO A PERFECT VEHICLE FOR THE VICTORIOUS ONE. 

FOURTH DAY: Keys 15, 5, 4, 18. I fear no 
evil. For as I listen and obey the instruction 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-SEVEN 9 

of the Inner Voice, delusion vanishes. I see 
the heavenly order wherever I look. I AM BEING 
TRANSFORMED INTO THE LIKENESS OF THE ONE SELF, 
THAT SELF WHICH SEES NAUGHT BUT THE PERFECTION 
OF ITS DIVINE MANIFESTATION. 

FIFTH DAY: Keys 18, 13, 8, 3. Today marks 
another stage of progress along the Path of 
Return. Today marks the utter dissolution of 
some error «f thepast. Today is a more per- 
fect expression of the inexhaustible strength 
of the One Life. TODAY BRINGS ME NEARER THE 
GOAL OF TRUE WISDOM. 

SIXTH DAY: Keys 6, 9, 12, 15. This day I 
manifest harmony, I look upward toward the 
heights. I rest secure in the knowledge of my 
union with the Life-power, I RENEW MY STRENGTH. 



INTERPRETATION 

C.DHSTANT Si)MMAT/6N 

k'eij, IO is c./m sldcre.1 as the. o^et aAiori of + he. 

* >r,1,c '’ j»/e. «>^mba/iz«<i key. £ vuorlring- thr«( 
K.hi+ is represented by #«>i{ 


\ 


\ 



7 V 

//A 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 


LESSON TWENTY-EIGHT 
The Tarot tableau for this lesson is 


7 

17 

18 

4 

12 

10 

9 

15 

8 

14 

13 

11 

19 

5 

6 

16 


The constant summation is 46. This indi- 
cates Key 10, the Wheel of Fortune, considered 
as the operation of the principle sjnnbolized by 
Key 6, the Lovers, workitg through what is 
represented by Key 4, the Emperor. 

Through its connection with the letter Kaph, 
Key 10 is related to the 21st path on the Tree 
of Life, named M The Intelligence of Desirous 
Quest.” The Book of Formation says t ”It is so 
called because it receives the divine influence 
which flows into ^ it, and through it sends a 
benediction upon every mode of existence.” 

The meaning of the letter-name Kaph is ”a 
grasping hand,” Comprehension is thus the 
fundamental meaning of all that is represented 
by the letter and the corresponding Key. What 
is comprehended is something already given . We 
have to became properly receptive to the uni- 
verse before we may grasp its significance, A 
true Qabalist is, first of all, a receptive 
person. The whole mental training of a practi- 
cal occultist rests on this foundation of 
adequate receptivity to the influx of the 
impulses of the Life-power, 

These impulses come to us through the sense 
channels, from without, and from superconscious 
levels, through the inner sensorium, from with- 
in. Right comprehension is the result of 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-EIGHT 2 

balancing the two kinds of impulse. From with- 
out we receive impressions -which make us aware 
of the facts of existence. From within we 
receive the intuitions which enable us to grasp 
the meaning of the facts. 

The Universal Mind, which eternally grasps 
both the facts of existence, and their signifi- 
cance, is regarded by ocoultists as being an 
immediate presence in every human personality 
(Key 4), The degree in which that presence is 
felt, the measure in which the perfect knowl- 
edge of the One Life is expressed in personal 
consciousness, are matters largely conditioned 
by the state of the personal organism, A highly 
developed organism is more responsive, and 
expresses the heavenly vision more clearly, 
just as a fine radio has greater range, finer 
selectivity, and better tonality than a cheap 
one (Key 18), 

In occult practice, right meditation is the 
method used to refine the physical vehicle. 
Contrary to outward appearances, a man in medi- 
tation is not merely passive. By an intense 
act of will, he maintains an unbroken flow of 
knowledge in some particular object. Medita- 
tion begins with intense concentration on some 
fact of sense-experience. The passivity of 
outward appearance presented by the still body 
of a person deep in the meditative trance is in 
sharp contrast to the intense ac tivity with- 
in, characterizing true meditation (Key 17), 
The outer vehicle is quiet, but the .inner life 
is active and alert (Key 7). 

After a certain amount of technical prelimi- 
nary training i n concentration, medication 
should be vised in connection with some particu- 
lar object suggested by whatever problem ma»y be 
uppermost in the student’s life. Remembering 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-EIGHT 3 

always that the appearances of diversity which 
constitute a problem are appearances caused by 
his own ignorance of some element of the situa- 
tion, the practical ocoultist faces his problem 
squarely, making no attempt to avoid it or to 
escape from it. He knows from experience that 
every problem contains its own answer, and in 
meditation looks for the answer (Key 15), He 
knows, also, that the real Self, above and be- 
hind his personality, already knows the answer* 
and in his meditation seeks merely to make 
himself receptive to the influx of that higher 
knowledge (Key 9), 

In this kind of practice, the under lying 
principle is the fact that no circumstance 
whatever is separate from the unbroken succes- 
sion of events constituting the universal 
order. The conditions which seem to be adverse, 
the situations which appear t o us as 
problems, are merely aspects of the universal 
order, whose relation to the whole, and to our- 
selves, we fail to perceive. Meditation enables 
us to receive from superconsoious levels 
the Life-power* s perfect knowledge of the sig- 
nificance of any given situation (Key 10), 

Thus one of the means to the attainment of 
right comprehension is the mental attitude of 
complete passivity in relation to the support^ 
ing, presence of the Life-power, That is to 
say, the practical occultist recognizes the 
truth that every detail of his personal life- 
expression is really just a particular mani- 
festation, in time and space, of the universal 
Life, To that Life he surrenders himself ut- 
terly, and the more complete his surrender, the 
more perfectly does his personality express the 
Life-power’s command over every circumstance. 
His secret is that he submits his whole exist- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-EIGHT 4 

ence to the direction of the Life-power (Key- 

12 ). 

No amount of argument will ever convince 
anybody that this procedure will actually pro- 
duce good results. All the proverbial wisdom 
of the race is against it. Nothing in ordinary 
experience seems to support the occult doc- 
trine. Yet, as one approaches what the occult 
schools so often call ripeness , some dim reali- 
zation that one*s whole existence is actually 
just a particular manifestation of universal 
activities begins to dawn in the mind of the 
seeker for liberation (Key 11). 

From this initial vague awareness, to the 
point where the seeker passes through the "mys- 
tic death" which utterly dissolves his former 
.personality, and completely transforms the fun- 
damental motivation of his existence, there is 
a steady, but almofet imperceptible, growth in 
consciousness (Key 13). After this transforma- 
tion, the person in whom it has occurred knows 
at first hand that his personal being is a par- 
ticular example or demonstration of the powers 
of the universal Life (Key 14). 

The ultimate outoome of this demonstration 
is complete verification of the truth that the 
Higher Self is master of all conditions. The 
first stages of the demonstration bring the 
student* s own body and all its forces under 
control of his mind. Later stages of growth 
bring animal life outside his body under his 
mental control. Still u»ore advanced stages of 
development make him mjaster of the forces of 
the vegetable kingdom. Tlae final stages of the 
Great Work give him command of the elemen- 
tal forces of the inorgani.c or mineral kingdom. 
He in whom the Great W-ork reaches its final 
term appears to his contemporaries to be a 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-EIGHT 5 

worker of miracles; but in his own understand- 
ing he is no more than the passive instrument 
of a higher power. Thus, with Jesus, he says: 
"I do nothing of myself. The Father worketh 
hitherto, and I work.*’ 

The true cause of the marvels which excite 
the admiring wonder of his contemporaries is 
understood by an adept to be the already-exist- 
ing command of circumstance inherent in the 
nature of the Life-power. This command of cir- 
cumstance is an eternal fact. It was an actual 
reality, long before the particular time when 
it is demonstrated through the personality of a 
given adept . M My Father worketh hitherto . " In 
consequence of that working, says the adept, 
M I work” (Key 8 ). 

Worldly wisdom regards each man’s life as 
being his own personal affair. The basis of 
all worldly precept and practice is the fallacy 
that every human being is a separate unit. 
This false interpretation of the meaning of 
personality must be destroyed before the Great 
Work may be completed in the field of time and 
space which is the setting for the life of any 
given personality (Key 16). 

Careful examination of one’s own states of 
consciousness helps overcome the error. When 
the operations of the self-conscious and sub- 
conscious levels of the personal life are 
watched closely, it becomes evident that the 
foroes at work do not originate in either of 
these two fields of action. Self-consciousness 
and subconsciousness are, both of them, essen- 
tially relative in their operation. We respond 
consciously and subconsciously to various stiim* i 
uli, but the stimuli themselves originate out- 
side the limits of personality. Even the power 
to respond comes from outside the personal 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-EIGHT 6 

field* Any one may discover this for himself, 
as a result of considering attentively the 
physical and mental activities of his personal 
existence* By the angel in Key 6, Tarot repre- 
sents the true source of the powers expressed 
through personality, and the symbolism o f 
that Key shows the actual relation of the 
conscious and subconscious aspects of personal- 
ity to the superoonscious Life-power (Key 6)* 

On the practical side, furthermore, he who 
will merely assume the presence in his J-ife of 
a real source of knowledge, always recfdy to 
guide those who listen for its instruction 
obey it, will soon receive abundant evident 
that his assumption is correct* To him who 
listens and obeys, the Inner Voice gives freely 
of its wise counsel (Key 5)* 

Under its guidance, there is, in due season, 
a complete regeneration of renewal of the 
elements of personal life* This is the M new 
birth, 11 so often mentioned in sacred and occult 
writings* It fashions the w r hole personality 
after a new image* The new man is imbued with 
the feeling that he is actually risen from 
death, that he has experienced in his own per- 
son the mystery of resurrection (Key 19)* 

The truly "twice-born" or regenerated person 
turns his back on the restrictions of our or- 
dinary existence* He faces in another direction* 
He stands, so to say, in a magic circle, 
and every detail of his life is part of a magi- 
cal ceremonial, productive of wonderful results 
(Key 19). His daily experience is a continual 
verification of the underlying principles of 
practical occultism (Key 14)* His inner life 
is a state of joyous union with the Higher 
Self* Nothing resists his will, because he has 
completely identified his "personal will" with 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-EIGHT 7 

the One Will behind the order of the Universe, 
Note well the significance of the verb, identi- 
fied, and you will get at the inner ‘meaning Of 
what you have just read (Key 9). In short, an 
adept is able to give every outward and visible 
sign of mastery because he has come into full 
realization of the truth that his true Self is 
none other than the Eternal Master of All (Key 
4 ) • 

In Chapter 3 of the Bha gavad - Gita , Krishna 
says: "There is nothing for me to do in these 
three worlds — nothing unattained that is pos- 
sible to attain; still I am present in a^fcicaa," 
The Supreme Self is the Doer of all. He is 
present in action* and the action is unceasing. 
Yet is He also eternally at rest in his own 
Divine Perfection (Key 7). The syoles of 
manifestation fallow each other in the unending 
flux of involution and evolution, yet the Self 
remains poised and unmoved, like the sphinx at 
the top of the wheel in Key 10, 

Unceasing change of form, necessitating the 
passing away of old forms that new ones may 
come into manifestation, is the framework of 
the Life-power^ self-expression. As The Book 
of Tokens has it: "I am the germ, I am the 
growth, I am the decay," Yet the Self remains 
unc hanged in the midst of change (Key 13), 
Only forms perish. Thus only those systems of 
action are doaned to destruction which rest on 
the false assumption that there can ever bo any 
permanence in form . The attempt to establish 
forms which shall be everlasting is the fun- 
damental error, exemplified by the story of the 
Tower of Babel (Key 16), 

Thus the right interpretation of the Intel- 
ligence of Desirous Quest, and of Key 10, its 
representative in Tarot, may be stated thus: 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-EIGHT 8 

Right comprehension of the cyclic nature of 
manifestation shows us clearly that there is, 
during any great period of expression, an 
unbroken involution of spiritual potencies, 
balanced by an unbroken evolution of manifested 
forms of expression. No form can be final, 
because no form can terminate the manifestation 
of inexhaustible possibilities. 

This is the same idea expressed at the 
beginning of the Tarot series by the picture of 
the Fool. No matter to \vhat height of self- 
expression the Life-power attains there must be 
always a greater height beyond. To know this 
is to be free from two mistaken desires* 

1. The desire to perpetuate some particular 
form; 

2. The desire to attain to some form of 
expression which is believed to be ultimate or 
final. 

The wise man*s liberation is not the attain- 
ment of some changeless condition. Even if 
that condition be thought of as being alto- 
gether formless (from our point-of-view) , a 
closer examination of the thought will show 
that the so-called "formless state" is really a 
vague uniformity— s omething like the old lady*s 
notion of heaven, as a place where we shall be 
"all one happy mass." 

No, liberation is nothing like that. It is 
said to consist in spiritual knowing , because 
spiritual knowing is conscious identification 
with THAT which, though it enters into all 

forms, is restricted by none of them. The 

objeot of our desires, then, is not a form at 
all, but the spiritual Reality behind all 
forms. We do not seek a final condition, 

because reason tells us there can be no such 

thing. Our quest is for identification with 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-EIGHT 9 

that which is beyond all bonds of name and 
form. Our goal is nothing short of Life Eter- 
nal, and it has been said by the greatest of 
Masters: "This is life eternal, to know thee, 
the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou 
hast sent." The American translation is better 
here: "Eternal life means knowing you as the 
only true God, and knowing Jesus your messenger 
as Christ." This, of course, is the position 
of the Western School, and its inner significance 
is elaborated in our lessons on the MASTER PAT- 
TERN and the TREE CF LITE. 

MEDITATIONS 

FIRST DAY: Keys 4, 13, 17, 7. The Universal 
Mind, comprehending all phenomena and their 
significance, is a real presence in my life. 
Daily I become more and more responsive to the 
inf lux of its wisdom. Established in right 
meditation, I see this day new forms of truth, 

MY PERSONAL LIFE IS THE FIELD OF MANIFESTATION 
FOR THE VICTORIOUS SPIRIT. 

SECOND DAY: Keys 15, 9, 10, 12. Every prob- 
lem contains its own answer. My true Self 
knows now whatever is hidden from my personal 
vision. Every situation in which I find myself 
is an aspect of the universal order. THIS DAY 
I RESIGN MYSELF UTTERLY T 0 THE UNFAILING 
SUPPORT CF THE ONE REALITY. 

THIRD DAY: Keys 11, 13, 14, 8. All my per- 
sonal actions are but particular expressions of 
universal powers. Day by day I am transformed 
into a more perfect likeness of my true Self* 

I am under guidance always. MY TRUE SELF IS 
NOW MASTER OF ALL CONDITIONS. 


\ 











TAROT INTERPRETATION 

LESSON TWENTY-EIGHT 10 

FOURTH DAY: Keys 16, 6, 5, 19. Nothing in 
my life is, or can be, separated from the Uni- 
versal Life. The true source of all my personal 
activities, conscious and subconscious, is a 
power flowing into the field of personality 
from the superconscious. As I listen and obey, 
the Inner Voice gives freely of its wise coun- 
sel. THIS IS A DAY OF REGENERATION. 

FIFTH DAY: Keys 19, 14, 9, 4. My whole 
life is a ceremony, expressing the heavenly 
order. This very day I verify the principles 
of true occultism. I identify my personal 
volition as being one with the Universal Will, 
MY TRUE SELF IS THE ETERNAL MASTER OF CREATION. 

SIXTH DAY: Keys 7, 10, 13, 16. The Supreme 
Self is present in all action. It remains 
poised and firm in the midst of change. Let 
forms pass: IT remains. I AM FREE FROM DESIRE 
FOR THE CONTINUANCE OF ANY FORM. 






* 












i? 



^ W«t i wJy 

•Jccrnfeir^ «arc ctr/ vfe when vie (icdf 

ccnfc/ i'n brd/n Xnne* Vaice . 


2 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 
LESSON TWENTY- NINE 

THE TAROT tableau for this lesson 
is as follows: 

.8 18 19 .5 
13 11 10 16 
9 15 14 12 
20 6 7 17 

The constant summation is 50. 
This indicates Key 5, the Hierophant 
considered as the operation of the 
power of Key 0, the Fool, through 
the agency of Key 5. 

This tableau, then, may be expect- 
ed to show how the power of intu- 
ition (Key 5) formulates the energy 
of superconsciousness. That energy 
is represented by Key 0. Thus the 
whole tableau will be more or less 
related to. the mode of consciousness 
known in Qabalah as the Triumphant 
and Eternal Intelligence, said to be 
* * the delight of glory, the glory of 
the No-thing, veiling the name of 
Him, the Fortunate One... the Garden 
of Eden, prepared for the right- 
eous.'' As we have written else- 
where: ‘‘This path is called ‘the 

delight of glory, the glory of No- 
Thing, * because when at last we do 
hear, the message of the Inner Voice 
is one of purest joy, and the joy is 
that which comes when our interior 
hearing enables us to identify the 
Self in us with that eternal I AM 

- 1 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 29 


whose very essence is the AIN or No- 
Thing which we call ‘All the power 
that ever was or will be.* The 
glory of that power is then revealed 
to us, and the experience is what 
Hindus call ‘Existence-Knowledge- 
Bli ss Absolute 9 • ' * 

This revelation of the real nature 
of the Self includes the perception 
of conscious immortality, symbolized 
in Tarot by Key 20. To hear the 
Voice of the Eternal is truly to 
share its knowledge that the Self 
never was born, and shall never die. 
Hence an old magical manuscript 
quoted by Eliphas Levi declares that 
he who knows the secret of the let- 
ter Vav, to which the Hierophant is 
attributed, ‘‘knows the reason of 
the past, present, and future . ’’ 
Past and present and future have 
their reason for existence, or their 
cause, in eternity. Eternity is al- 


ways No 

> w . 

Whe 

n 

the Inne 

r Voice 

speaks , 

th 

e f a c 

t 

of eterni 

. t y is a 

d irect , 

present 

realizat ion 

t and is 

seen to 

be 

the cause of the 

i l lus ion 

of time . 






Three 

centers 

o 

f the body 

are ac- 


tive when we hear the Inner Voice 

the auditory center in the brain, 
the pituitary body or Moon center, 
and the Venus center in the throat. 
Thus we are told by astrologers that 
the sign Taurus, ruled by Venus, and 

- 2 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 29 


place of the Moon's exaltation, gov- 
erns the throat and ears. In 
listening to the Inner Voice we 
really hear, but the vibration of 
the three centers involved in this 
interior hearing is set up by the 
impact of energy origin at in g in 
superconscious levels, instead of 
heing caused by air-waves impinging 
on our ear-drums. That is, the 
physiological apparatus for ordinary 
hearing is set in motion by etheric 
impulses, having their origin in the 
Universal Mind )Key 5). Such in- 
terior hearing is greatly facilita- 
ted by our conscious realisation 
that sensations may be experienced 
without the stimulus of forces hav- 
ing their origin in our external 
physical environment. 

As soon as we understand that the 
1 1 inner sensorium* 1 which gives us 
spiritual hearing, spiritual sight, 
and other spiritual sensations, is 
none other than the sense apparatus 
ordinarily excited by physical stim- 
uli, much of the mystery concerning 
the higher kinds of perception is 
dissipated. Then we can turn away 
from outer sense stimulus intention- 
ally, in order to be in a receptive 
attitude toward the spiritual stim- 
uli which arouse the higher and in- 
ner sensations. This is exactly 
what is represented by the symbolism 
of Key 19, and the two figures of 

- 3 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 29 


that Key are shown as little child- 
ren because, when we begin this 
practice, we have to learn the sig- 
nificance of our interior sensations 
just as children have to learn the 

meaning of ordinary sensations 
(Key 19). 

By turning our attention to the 
inner life we gradually organize 
these bodily centers which are our 
means of contact with the higher 
planes. The path shown in Key 18, 
therefore, leads to heights in the 
far background of the picture. Thus 
in accordance with an ancient con- 
vention of symbolic art, the hint is 
given that the goal of occult prac- 
tice, the height of interior Reality 
which is the background of our ex- 
ternal life, and the source of power 
whence all the forces of the exter- 
nal life are derived, may be ex- 
perienced directly . We cannot hear 
the Inner Voice unless we have ears 
to hear. Organic development is an 
indispensable condition for spirit- 
ual experience Key 18. 

This development follows auto- 
matically when we grasp intellectu- 
ally the principle involved, and 
make that principle the basis of our 
practice of life. For subconscious- 
ness, always amenable to the domi- 
nant suggestion originating at the 
self-conscious level, is the body 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 29 

builder. We have merely to see to 
it that our thoughts, words and acts 
formulate the fundamental idea that 
we are on the Path of Return, that 
we are ripening into beings having 
ears to hear, and eyes to see. The 
subconscious organizing power auto- 
matically takes care of the complex 
processes whereby the actual physio- 

J o^ical readjustments are effected 

Key 8). 

The earlier stages of that re- 
adjustment resemble what occurs when 
a new building is erected on the 
site of an old one. What happens 
first is that the old building is 
torn down. Thus, whenever any per- 
son seriously undertakes to live the 
life of regeneration, he invites and 
experiences a period of mental and 
emotional and physical upset. Every 
true occult teaching announces this 
fact in no uncertain terms; but the 
egotism of many beginner soften 
leads them to believe they will be 
shining exceptions to this invari- 
able rule. Thus many who begin 
occult work with enthusiasm abandon 
their practice before it has gone 
far enough. They bewail their ap«* 
parent misfortunes, and, in a vain 
effort to eat their cake and have it 
too, fail miserably (Key 16). 

Yet even this apparent failure is 
but part of the ripening process, 

-5- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 29 

All of us have probably failed again 
and again, but our inability to re- 
member past incarnations mercifully 
hides those failures behind a veil 
of forgetfulness. From these abor- 
tive attempts, however, comes the 
impulse which drives us now to seek 
release. Sooner or later, that im- 
pulse will be fully realized, and we 
shall reach the term of our quest 
(Key 10). 

Faithful adherence to what we do 
know, and faithful practice of the 
best type of life our present under- 
standing shows us, are indispens- 
able. Intermittent, casual effort 
is of little avail. There must be 
daily--yes, hourly and momentary-- 
adjustment. Continual vigilance, 
careful weighing of every motive and 
of every act, determined elimination 
of every mental, emotional and 
physical state which holds us back-- 
these are necessary to the unfold- 
ment of the higher orders of knowing 
(Key 11). 

By this time it must be familiar 
to you that the secret of the Great 
Work is dissolution--and how often 
have you been told that dissolution 
and death are synonyms! Your old 
personality must be utterly dis- 
olved before the jiew personality can 
be formulated. Just as a caterpil- 
lar's body, inside its cocoon, loses 

- 6 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 29 


all its characteristic parts, and is 
resolved into a homogeneous . mass , so 
does the occultist's mental concept 
of personality have to be dissolved 
before it may be reconstituted in 
the New Image (Key 13)* 

This dissolution is not destruc- 
tion of the physical body. It is 
the renunci at ion- - the total renun- 
ciation and repudiation-- of the 
conception of human personality held 
by the uninitiated or wordly man* 
It is the reduction of that false 
notion to absolute nothingness, un- 
til the seeker‘ s consciousness re- 
tains no trace of affinity with the 
world's false interpretation of the 
meaning of personality. This utter 
reversal of ordinary opinion is the 
true meaning. of alchemical dis- 
solution (Key 12)* 

He who regards every event of his 
life as being a particular dealing 
of God with his soul acts from mo- 
tives quite other than those which 
are behind the ordinary person's 
thoughts and deeds. The psycho- 
logical effect of this new point-of- 
view is very important. No one but 
a very ignorant person can possibly 
believe that his own 9 9 powers are 
adequate to effect the work of re- 
generation* We must invoke the aid 
of a power higher than ourselves, if 
we are to succeed in the Great Work. 


- 7 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 29 

Ageless Wisdom gives rational sup- 
port to our faith, instead of the 
irrational acceptance of creeds and 
authority demanded by exoteric reli- 
gion. Faith we must have; for we 
can never succeed without it; but 
ours is a reasonable faith, suscep- 
tible. to experimental verification 
(Key 14). 

Our work in practical occultism 
demands a faith like this, because 
the occultist is confronted, early 
in his endeavors to escape from de- 
lusion, with many a vivid apparition 
of the Terrible. The Dweller on the 
Threshold is by no means a fanciful 
creation of romancers. By no means 
does the adoption of the occult way 
of life immediately remove all prob- 
lems from our path. On the con- 
trary, our earlier experiences u- 
sually bring us face to face with a 
host of problems which are not less 
terrifying because their existence 
is not even suspected by an ordinary 
human being (Key 15). 

Not the least of those is the 
sense of utter loneliness which of- 
ten descends upon the occult aspi- 
rant, especially if he happens to 
live in a community where few other 
persons share his interests. When 
one begins in earnest to lead the 
occult life, not the least of his 
tests is that his conduct becomes 
incomprehensible to his relatives 
- 8 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 29 


and friends, Often he finds that 
his work breaks ties which have ex- 
isted for years, and until he 
realizes that freedom lies in the 
breaking of all ties, the severing 
of all bonds, this hurts. Then too, 
it often seems to him that he is 
working without a glimmer of light 
from above* To all who are beset by 
such feelings, Ageless Wisdom says, 

4 ‘Whether you realize it or not, 
you are never really alone* Always 
there stands the Silent Watcher, 
holding up the lamp of truth to 
light your way. Persist, then, and 
in due season you will reach the 
goal, the goal of absolute identi- 
fication with that One whose high, 
attainment now seems to you to be so 
far removed from your present situa- 
tion. That One is your true Self. 
Advance within to the height where 
He stands’ 4 (Key 9). 

Meditation is the method adopted 
by all occult schools for the work 
of readjustment* The technical work 
of meditation brings about many 
subtile psychological changes, amon^ 
them the balancing and coordination 
of the. activities of the 44 interior 
stars ' 9 (Key 17). By meditation one 
comes to know at first hand that the 
personality is nothing but a vehicle 
for the real Self (Key 7). Medita- 
tion leads also to right discrimina- 
tion, and to the balancing of the 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 29 

activities of the conscious and sub- 
conscious levels of personal action 
(Key 6). No one can be a practical 
occultist who does not meditate* for 
release from the time-bound, three- 
dimensional consciousness of un- 
initiated humanity into the con- 
scious immortality and fourth -dimen - 
sional experience of the initiate is 
a direct consequence of meditation 
(Key 20). 

The time of that release no man 
knows. They who ask, ”How long 
will it take me to attain libera- 
tion?” betray their ignorance of 
fundamentals by their questions. 
Not for nothing did Eliphas Levi say, 
‘‘The occultist must work as if he 
had all eternity to complete his 
undertaking.” For it is the es- 
sence of occult attainment that it 
is unrelated to time as we under- 
stand time (Key 20). 

The illusion of illusions* after 
all, is the appearance that we are 
not now what we shall some day be- 
come. Notwithstanding all that has 
been said about higher experiences 
being the consequence of organic 
changes, the fact remains that the 
speed with which those changes are 
effected depends on elements we can- 
not possibly calculate. There have 
been instances in which the trans- 
formation of the vehicles of con- 
sciousness appeared to be instan- 
- 10 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 29 


taneous. The main point to bear in 
mind is that the transformation is 
merely .in the vehicle, not in the 
Self. You are, in reality, at this 
very moment all that you aspire to 
become. The delusion that you are 
something else is precisely the root 
error from which occult practice 
will release you (Key 15). 

At the center of a wheel there is 
no movement. At the core of your 
existence is the changeless Spirit 
of Life. When you have, as the say- 
ing is, arrived at the goal, you 
will discover that you were never 
anywhere else. Is this a paradox? 
It is .also a fundamental truth 
(Key 10). 

For who is the Speaker whose Voice 
is heard in the Silence? Your Self. 
Who is the Knower from whose inex- 
haustible store of wisdom you may 
receive light on all your problems? 
None other than your Self. To know 
that Seif, to comprehend its ex- 
haustless power, to express that 
power in every detail of personal 
existence, is the sum of true occult 
attainment (Key 5). 

You have come in touch with this 
work because, even now, you are 
ripening into the New Image. Wheth- 
er you have any particular external 
evidence or not, the subtle power of 
the law which transforms personality 

- 11 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 29 

is at work in you (Key 8)* Be 
faithful; in the little things of 
daily practice, and presently you 
will find yourself entrusted with 
the a.djus tment of greater things 
(Key 11 )• These pages go where they 
are sent, and something higher than 
the knowledge and plans of the human 
beings .who compose and distribute 
them is in charge of this work. YOU 
are among the called. You are amond 
those whose lives are under the im- 
mediate _ sup e rvi si on of Those Who 
Kn ow, You are in the midst of a 
process of transmutation which shall 
change all the base metal.of your 
nature into pure gold (Key 14). Let 
this thought be the focal point of 
your meditations during the coming 
week, and be sure to make note of 
any unveilings of truth which may 
come. to you during this period 
(Key 17). 

MEDITATIONS 

First day: Keys 5, 19, 18, 8. 

Instructed by the Inner Voice, 1 
turn away from the limitations of 
the outer senses, in order that this 
my body, may be transformed into the 
new image, through the unfailing 
strength of the perfect law . 

Second day: Keys 16, 10, 11, 13. 
Let every vestige of the false life 
be cleared away, that through right 
c omprehens ion of the law I may be 

- 12 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 29 


faithful in even the least things, 
thus dissolving every trace of the 
error of separateness. 

Third day: Keys 12, 14, 15, 9. 
Daily I reverse the false concepts 
of the world, submitting every de- 
tail of my life to the guidance of 
the True Self, facing every problem 
courageously , relying confidently 
on the power of the Silent Watcher. 

Fourth Day: Keys 17, 7, 6, 20. 
I will persist in meditation until I 
realize fully the Indwelling Pre- 
sence of the One Self, and exper- 
ience that perfect balance of my 
inner powers which shall release me 
from Time into Eternity. 

Fifth day: Keys 20*, 15, 10, 5. I 
am not in haste, for I know all ad- 
versity shall be overcome in due 
season if I but listen to the inner 
Voice and obey its admonitions . 

Sixth day: Keys 8, 11, 14, 17. 
The perfect Law works in my flesh to 
eliminate all embodiments of delu- 
sion and balance all forces, to the 
end that I may enjoy the _Know ledge 
and Conversation of the Guardian 
Angel, and witness the Unveiled 
Truth. 


- 13 - 


3 a 


30 



J_£ SSOM 30 

COtJSrMNt" 5DMWATIOM 54r 

Keq ?" Her-m«+ densities'* d as 4 (k* <^»er«-f.'6Ti o-j H« paWey* 
6^- th« ETnJjer®' 1 ’ vaoTt«'n£ fhr«i fhdt - +h® Hieroyhdn't 

}-lar m»+ »fc.U»'^enee wMI 


) 

V 



3o 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 
LESSON THIRTY 

THE TAROT tableau for this lesson 


9 

19 

20 

.6 

14 

12 

11 

17 

10 

16, 

15 

13 

21 

7 

a 

18 


The. constant summation is 54. 
This indicates Key 9, the Hermit, 
considered as the operation of the 
power symbolized by Key 4, the Em- 
peror, working through the agency 
represented in Tarot by Key 5, the 
Hierophant. - . ; 


The Hermit corresponds to the 20t'h 
path on the Tree of Life, named In- 
telligence of Will. The Book of 
Formation says: V It is so called 
because it forms the patterns of all 
bodies; and by this intelligence, 
when it is perceived, the pre-exist- 
ent Wisdom is discovered . ' 9 


The letters of the Hebrew noun 
31X1, rawtsone, '‘Will,*’ are four, 
and by their Qabalistic correspond- 
ences they represent radiant energy 
or fire (T); air (X); earth (1); and 
water (<!). Thus the occult signifi- 
cance of the word relates to the 
idea of a synthesis of the four ele- 


- 1 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 30 


ments, which synthesis is none other 
than the One Reality, the Ancient of 
Days represented by the Hermit, and 
customarily designated by the Divine 
Name HliT, Jehovah . 

In the ‘‘Mind of the Father,'' as 
The Chaldean Oracles call it, are 
the primary patterns of all things, 
and each pattern is a mental embodi- 
ment of the intention or purpose, or 
Will, of the Universal Mind, These 
archetypal patterns are maintained 
throughout a cycle of manifestation, 
and thus they are imposed upon all 
particular centers of life-expres- 
sion. 

These patterns in the mind of the 
Father are the conditions of mani- 
fested existence, the archetypal 
roots of all states of embodiment. 
Orderly formulation of knowledge 
concerning these conditions is the 
method of science, exoteric and eso- 
teric. 

Exoteric science regards these 
conditions as being given by forces 
or powers external to man, who ob- 
serves and, studies them. Occult 
science, on the contrary, declares 
that the Mind of the Father is a 
real presence in eve_ry human being. 
It holds that when Jesus said, ‘‘I 
and the Father are One,'' he was 
simply declaring his personal reali- 

- 2 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 30 


aation of a fact vhich i3 just as 
truly a fact for those persons who 
h ave not yet realized it* Thus Oc- 
cult Science declares that the power 
which forms the patterns- of all 
bodies is a real , integral part of 
man’s constitution* From this it 
follows that the conditions round us 
are not imposed from outside, but 
are actually expressions of our 
innermost, true Will** < 


Not until the difference between 
the functions of the conscious and 
subconscious levels of personal 
mentality have been understood in 
some measure, may we come to know 
the Will of the Father* Confusion 
as to the nature of these functions, 
ignorance of the differences between 
the two modes of personal conscious- 
ness, and consequent attempts to do 
consciously what ought to be done 
subconsciously (or vice versa-), are 
among the most potent causes of our 
human predicaments* As soon as we 
realize that the conscious mind in 
personality is only the watcher and 
initiator of action, as soon as we 
act upon the fact that subconscious- 
ness is the body-builder and the 
link between personality and the 
Universal Self, the confusion begins 
to clear up. All practical occult- 
ism is a development of the funda- 
mental facts and laws illustrated by 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 30 


the sixth Tarot Key# It is on this 
account that the final Key of the 
major trumps bears a number which is 
the extension of the number of the 
Lovers# For 21 is the sum of the 
numbers from 0 to 6, inclusive# 
This, to a number symbolist, is 
equivalent to saying that what is 
represented by Key 21 is merely the 
unfoldment of the possibilities 
shown in Key 6# 

Our tableau this week, then, re- 
minds us that to know the Will of 
the Father, we must have used the 
law of suggestion to turn the sub- 
conscious mind, like a mirror, so 
that it reflects the light of super- 
consciousness into the field of per- 
sonality (Key 6). Conscious immort- 
ality, as we have shown elsewhere, 
i s the direct consequence of our 
subconscious contact eith the true 
Self# For when that contact is 
established, the body-building func- 
tions of subconsciousness are modi- 
fied. So to say, the patterns in 
the Mind of the Father are reflected 
into the field of personality, and 
there ensues a complete reorganiza- 
tion of the personal vehicle# This 
reorganization includes the awaken- 
ing of the functions of certain 
bodily centers, which enable us to 
become consciously aware of the fact 
that we are four-dimensional eternal 


- 4 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 30 


beings (Kay 20) •’ Such awareness is 
the immediate consequence of a 
regenerative process just as much 
physical as mental (Key 19). This 
regenerative process turns us away 
from the limitations of the sense 
life, and opens to us the glories of 
the supersensual realm. In this 
realm we establish contact with the 
Intelligence of Will, and realize at 
last our identity with the Silent 
Watcher (Key 9). 

The truth about the Self unveils 
itself to us in our hours of medita- 
tion. As it is written in Light on 
the Path: ' ‘ Look for the flower to 
bloom in the silence that foLlows 
the storm: not till then.’* Hence 
in Tarot the Key picturing this ex- 
perience (Key 17) is placed immedi- 
ately after the one which shows a 
violent storm. Only through right 
meditation can confidence be devel- 
oped in the absolute justice of cos- 
mic law. Such confidence is indis- 
pensable to him who would establish 
equilibrium in his own personality 
(Key 11). It is because the prac- 
tice of meditation puts us in touch 
with the Inner Life that it is so 
insisted upon in all manuals of 
practical occultism. Again we quote 
from Light on the Path: ‘‘For within 
you is the light of the world....... 

Through your own heart comes the one 

- 5 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 30 


light which can illuminate life and 
make it clear to your eyes , 9 9 These 
quotations ace from the portions 
numbered 12 in the first and second 
sections of Light on the Path , and 
they are in direct correspondence 
with the Hanged Man (Key 12), After 
the suspension of personal action, 
after the utter resignation of the 
personal life to the guidance of 
Universal Spirit, comes the Know- 
ledge and Conversation of the Holy 
Guardian Angel, That Angel effects 
the transmutation of all the base 
elements of the personal life 
(Key 14). 

Ardent desire for power is re- 
quired of us, but the power we are 
taught to desire is not power over 
others. It is contact with the 
Life-power itself, and this contact 
is often described as * 1 knowledge . 9 9 
But this is not superficial brain- 
knowledge, It is not ordinary in- 
formation. It is an intimate union, 
closely approximating the archaic 
significance of the verb “to know” 
and directly connected with the sub- 
limation of the forces corresponding 
to the zodiacal sign Scorpio (Key ^ 

13), Such knowledge brings about 
the development of the inner senses, 
and results in comprehension of the 
true significance of the various 
combinations of elemental forces. 


- 6 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 30 


To the eye of outer sensation, 
these combinations seem to be cha- 
otic, and their activities seem to 
constitute a strong opposition to 
our plans and purposes. To the 
spiritual eye they present another 
aspect. When that eye is opened the 
Adversary is recognized as a friend, 
wearing a mask of terror while He 
teaches us. how to play the game of 
life (Key 15), 

Through his instruction we learn 
to conquer the false desires of the 
outer senses, and are enabled to 
overthrow the edifice of erroneous 
supposition, erected on the founda- 
tion of the sense of separateness 
(Key 16), Ultimately we discover 
the truth that everything in the 
field of manifestation is related to 
everything else. We see oUr person- 
al existence as part of the whole 
cycle of manifestation. We perceive 
that the events of today are direct- 
ly connected with the entire past, 
and just as truly, joined with the 
whole future (Key 10), 

Following the Path of Return, 
which leads within, we pass beyond 
the limits of ordinary experience 
into that vast Beyond whence come 
the reports of Those Who Know, our 
Elder Brothers who have preceded us. 
We are on the same path as They, for 
all that They seem so far beyond us, 

- 7 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 30 


From them comes the message: 1 ‘The 
whole nature of man must be used 
wisely by the one who desires to 
enter the way. * * For occult devel- 
opment includes the physical or cor- 
poreal nature, and is not complete 
until the outermost vehicle of 
Spirit, the physical body, has been 
transformed by the renewal of the 
mind (Key 18). In this transforma- 
tion the work is almost wholly sub- 
conscious. The conscious mind simp- 
ly perceives the law, and formulates 
the demand or pattern. The actual 
reorganization which brings the ani- 
mal nature completely under control 
is effected at subconscious levels 
(Key 8). Hence we are told, ‘‘Kill 
out the hunger for growth. * ' The 
transformation which is to be ef- 
fected is not growth, not the addi- 
tion of somewhat we do not now pos- 
sess. Rather is it a re-arrangement 
of the vehicles of consciousness- - a 
better co-ordination or alignment of 
the instrumentalities of Life- 
expression. The glorious truth is 
that the Self already is all that we 
aspire to be--and infinitely more. 
Not attainment, in the ordinary 
sense of the word, but realization 
of what already is, is the Goal 
(Key 7). No words can describe that 
realization. It is conscious iden- 
tification with Universal Spirit. 
Perfect peace, perfect bliss, per- 

- 8 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 30 


feet knowledge* All this it is, and 
more than this (21). 

The Administrative Intelligence, 
which corresponds to the final Tarot 
Key, really means 1 * the serving 
Intelligence ’ Cosmic conscious- 
ness, or the realization of identity 
with the Universal Spirit, finds ex- 
pression in work for the more com- 
plete manifestation of the heavenly 
order here on earth. He who knows 
the truth must needs live it. He 
becomes thenceforth a servant of the 
ALL. He does this, not as a duty 
hard to carry out, but as a natural 
expression of his realization of his 
true place in the cosmic order (Key 
21). For such a person, all selfish 
preoccupation with personal aims is 
automatically at an end (Key 16). 
He looks'on his personal existence 
as being a manifestation of that ex- 
quisite adjustment which maintains 
the cosmic equilibrium. In his vi- 
sion, all he does is naught but the 
manifestation of Karma; and because 
he has made himself, as a personal- 
ity, utterly receptive to the influx 
of the Universal Will, whatever ac- 
tion he engages in i.s extraordinar- 
ily effective (Key 11). On the side 
of self-consciousness, he acts mere- 
ly as a witness of the universal 
order. He knows that alert watch- 
fulness is necessary. He is intent 
on each succeeding phase of experi- 

- 9 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 30 

ence, ' Most of all, he is intent on 
clear reception from the supercon- 
scious Willj through the channel of 
subcons xiousness (Key 6). 

The conscious mind, by right rea- 
soning, infers the presence of the 
Universal Will as the guiding power 
at the heart of the personal life. 
Even though the Silent Watcher be 
unseen, right reasoning shows that 
He is present (Key 9). From this it 
follows that the only logical pro- 
cedure is to submit the whole per- 
sonal life to that Higher Guidance. 

By repeated sel f- reminder, one comes 
at last to regard all the operations 
of the personal life as having their 
real source in s up e r se n s u a 1 * and 
superpersonal planes of the Life- 
power's operation (Key 12). 

This intellectual correction of 
appearances, it should be under- 
stood, does not banish the appear- 
ances, during our ordinary. states of 
waking consciousness. The illusion 
of separateness continues, but the 
delusion which accepts this illusion 
as reality is overcome by occult 
practice (Key 15). Eventually every 
cell of the body is influenced by 
the change in mental attitude. 
Through the ordinary processes of 
physical elimination,, the old physi- 
cal vesture, conceived in ignorance, 
ceases to exist, and is replaced by 
a new body. 


- 10 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 30 


This is a physical body, but so 
perfectly adjusted, and in certain 
respects so different in its intern- 
al structure, that it might be re- 
garded as belonging to a new species. 
Such are the bodies of adepts and 
Masters--human in form, but truly 
superhuman in their capacity for 
utilizing and transforming rates of 
vibration which would soon disinte- 
grate the ordinary human vehicle 
(Key 18). 

MEDITATIONS 

FIRST DAY: Keys 6, 20, 19, 9. Sub- 

consciousness reflects the light and 
wisdom of the Oversoul into my field 
of personal awareness. Thus I re- 
ceive the power of eternal life in 
the midst of this illusion of tempo- 
ral existence. I am beginning to 
live the life of regeneration. I 
know my identity with the Silent 
Watcher . 

SECOND DAY: Keys 17, 11, 12, 14. 
The flower of realization blooms in 
the silence of meditation. I am 
sure of the absolute justice of cos- 
mic law. The light of the world is 
within me. That light transmutes my 
whole existence into its likeness . 

THIRD DAY: Keys 13, 15, 16, 10. 
Even the least of my activities is a 
transformation of the One Life-power. 
Thus I know that whatever mask of 
terror confronts me is really veil- 

- 11 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 30 


ing the face of the Eternal Friend. 
All semblances of stress and terror 
. are but preludes to the dawn of the 
Great Peace. This day the Wheel of 
Life turns forward for my good. 

FOURTH DAY: Keys 18, 8, 7, 21. I 
follow the Path of Return, trans- 
forming my body by the renewal of my 
mind. My life today is a stage in 
my progress toward_the perfect de- 
monstration of the Great Secret. My 
true Self is, even now, all that I 
aspire to be. I am all peace , all 
bliss, all knowledge. 

FIFTH DAY: Keys 21* 16, 11, 6. Let 
me be a servant of all. No aim is 
mine that others cannot share. I am 
an instrument of the Life-power's 
perfect ability to adjust all things 
for good* Let me be intent on clear 
ps ircept ion of the Great Purpose. 

SIXTH DAY: Keys 9*, 12*, 15, 18. 
Though I see Him not, I feel today 
the presence of the Silent Watcher. 
I submit my whole life to His per- 
fect guidance. Thus I recognize 
every appearance of separateness and 
chaos as being merely a veil of 
illusion, and I am not deluded by 
these surface appearances. Even in 
my flesh I shall see God. 


- 12 - 




r .* : 


TAROT INTERPRETATION 
LESSON THIRTY-ONE 

THE TWENTY -TWO Tarot Keys may be 
combined to form 112 groups of nine 
Keys, each group containing nine 
cards, numbered consecutively. 
This does not include the various 
1 ‘magic’ ' arrangements, such as we 
have been using in this course. 

The Keys in every group follow a 
certain natural order. The 112 com- 
binations fall into eight classes. 
Inspection of. the tables wilL show 
that in each set of fourteen groups, 
the first arrangement of nine Keys 
sets the pattern for all other 
groups of that class. No two ar- 
rangements are the same. Every one 
conveys its own distinct shade of 
meaning. 


FIRST CLASS 


0 

1 

2 

1 

2 

3 

2 

3 4 

3 

4 

5 

4 

5 

6 

5 

6 7 

6 

7 

8 

7 

8 

9 

8 

9 10 

3 

4 

5 

4 

5 

6 

5 

6 7 

6 

7 

8 

7 

8 

9 

8 

9 10 

9 

10 

11 

10 

11 

12 

11 

12 13 

6 

7 

8 

7 

8 

9 

8 

9 10 

9 

10 

11 

10 

11 

12 

11 

12 13 

12 

13 

14 

13: 

14 

is.: 

14 

15 ’16 


9 10 
12 13 
15 16 

12 13 
15 16 
18 19 


2 1 
5 4 
8 7 

5 4 
8 7 
11 10 

8 7 
11 10 
14 13 

11 10 
14 13 
17 16 

14 13 
17 16 
20 19 


0 3 

1 4 

2 5 


INTERPRETATION: ,31 


10 

11 

12 

11 

12 

13 

13 

14 

15 

14 

15 

16 

16 

17 

18 

17 

18 

19 

13 

14 

15 




16 

17 

18 




19 

20 

21 




SECOND CLASS 




3 

2 

1 

4 

3 

2 

6 

5 

4 

7 

6 

5 

9 

8 

7 

10 

9 

8 

6 

5 

4 

7 

6 

5 

9 

8 

7 

10 

9 

8 

12 

11 

10 

13 

12 

11 

9 

8 

7 

10 

9 

8 

12 

11 

10 

13 

12 

11 

15 

14 

13 

16 

15 

14 

12 

11 

10 

13 

1.2 

11 

15 

14 

13 

16 

15 

14 

18 

17 

16 

19 

18 

17 

15 

14 

13 




18 

17 

16 




21 

20 

19 




THIRD CLASS 




1 

4 

7 

2 

5 

8 

2 

5 

8 

3 

6 

9 

3 

6 

9 

4 

7 

10 


- 2 - 


TAROT 

11 

14 

17 

14 

17 

20 

0 

3 

6 

3 

6 

9 

6 

9 

12 

.9 

12 

15 

12 

15 

18 

6 

7 

8 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 31 


3 

6 

9 

4 

7 

10 

5 

8 

11 

4 

7 

10 

5 

8 

11 

6 

9 

12 

5 

8 

11 

6 

9 

12 

7 

10 

13 

6 

9 

12 

7 

10 

13 

8 

11 

14 

7 

10 

13 

8 

11 

14 

9 

12 

15 

8 

11 

14 

9 

12 

15 

10 

13 

16 

9 

12 

15 

10 

13 

16 

11 

14 

17 

10 

13 

16 

11 

14 

17 

12 

15 

18 

11 

14 

17 

12 

15 

18 

13 

16 

19 

12 

15 

18 

13 

16 

19 




13 

16 

19 

14 

17 

20 




14 

17 

20 

15 

18 

21 







FOURTH CLASS 




6 

3 

0 

7 

4 

1 

8 

5 

2 

7 

4 

1 

8 

5 

2 

9 

6 

3 

8 

5 

2 

9 

6 

3 

10 

7 

4 

9 

6 

3 

10 

7 

4 

11 

8 

5 

10 

7 

4 

11 

8 

5 

12 

9 

6 

11 

8 

5 

12 

9 

6 

13 

10 

7 

12 

9 

6 

13 

10 

7 

14 

11 

8 

13 

10 

7 

14 

11 

8 

15 

12 

9 

14 

11 

8 

15 

12 

9 

16 

13 

10 

15 

12 

9 

16 

13 

10 

17 

14 

U 

16 

13 

10 

17 

14 

11 

18 

15 

12 

17 

14 

11 

18 

15 

12 

19 

16 

13 





-3- 






TAROT INTERPRETATION: 31 


13 

15 

12 

19 

16 

13 




19 

16 

13 

20 

17 

14 




20 

17 

14 

21 

18 

15 







FIFTH CLASS 




6 

7 

8 

7 

8 

9 

8 

9 

10 

3 

4 

5 

4 

5 

6 

5 

6 

7 

0 

1 

2 

1 

2 

3 

2 

3 

4 

9 

10 

11 

10 

11 

12 

11 

12 

13 

6 

7 

6 

7 

8 

9 

8 

9 

10 

3 

4 

c 

4 

5 

6 

5 

6 

7 

12 

13 

14 

13 

14 

15 

14 

15 

16 

9 

30 

11 

10 

31 

12 

11 

12 

13 

6 

7 

8 

n 

i 

8 

9 

8 

9 

10 

15 

16 

17 

16 

17 

18 

17 

18 

19 

12 

13 

14 

13 

14 

15 

14 

15 

16 

9 

10 

11 

10 

11 

12 

11 

12 

13 

18 

19 

20 

19 

20 

21 




15 

16 

17 

16 

17 

18 




J 2 

13 

14 

13 

14 

15 







SIXTH CLASS 




8 

7 

6 

9 

8 

7 

10 

9 

8 

5 

4 

3 

6 

5 

4 

7 

6 

5 

2 

1 

0 

3 

2 

1 

4 

3 

2 

13 

10 

9 

12 

11 

10 

13 

12 

11 

8 

7 

6 

9 

8 

7 

10 

9 

8 

5 

4 

3 

6 

5 

4 

7 

6 

5 


-A- 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 31 


14 

13 

12 

15 

14 

13 

16 

15 

14 

11 

10 

9 

12 

11 

10 

13 

12 

11 

8 

7 

6 

9 

8 

7 

10 

9 

8 

17 

16 

15 

18 

17 

16 

19 

18 

17 

14 

13 

12 

15 

14 

13 

16 

15 

14 

11 

10 

9 

12 

11 

10 

13 

12 

11 

20 

19 

18 

21 

20 

19 




17 

16 

15 

18 

17 

16 




14 

13 

12 

15 

14 

13 







SEVENTH 

CUSS 




8 

5 

2 

9 

6 

3 

10 

n 

¥ 

7 

4 

1 

8 

5 

2 

9 

6 

3 

6 

3 

0 

7 

4 

1 

8 

5 

2 

11 

8 

5 

12 

9 

6 

13 

10 

7 

10 

7 

4 

11 

8 

5 

12 

9 

6 

9 

6 

3 

10 

7 

4 

11 

8 

5 

14 

11 

8 

15 

12 

9 

16 

13 

10 

13 

10 

7 

14 

11 

8 

15 

12 

9 

12 

9 

6 

13 

10 

7 

14 

11 

8 

17 

14 

11 

18 

15 

12 

19 

16 

13 

16 

13 

10 

17 

14 

11 

18 

15 

12 

15 

12 

9 

16 

13 

10 

17 

14 

11 

20 

17 

14 

21 

18 

15 




19 

16 

1.3 

20 

17 

14 . i 




18 

15 

12 

19 

16 

13 








-5- 

• 





TAROT INTERPRETATION: 31 


EIGHTH CLASS 


2 

5 

8 

3 

6 

9 

4 

7 

10 

1 

4 

7 

2 

5 

8 

3 

6 

9 

0 

3 

6 

1 

4 

7 

2 

5 

8 

5 

8 

ii 

6 

9 

12 

7 

10 

13 

4 

7 

10 

5 

8 

11 

6 

9 

12 

3 

6 

9 

4 

7 

10 

5 

8 

11 

8 

11 

14 

9 

12 

15 

10 

13 

16 

7 

10 

13 

8 

11 

14 

9 

12 

15 

6 

9 

12 

7 

10 

13 

8 

11 

14 

11 

14 

17 

12 

15 

18 

13 

16 

19 

10 

13 

16 

11 

14 

17 

12 

15 

18 

9 

12 

15 

10 

13 

16 

11 

14 

17 

14 

17 

20 

15 

18 

21 




13 

16 

19 

14 

17 

20 




12 

15 

18 

13 

16 

19 





As 

there are 

fourteen 

groups 

in 


each class, you can use two every 
day for eight full weeks, Set up 
one tableau of nine Keys for your 
morning meditation, and the next one 
just before going to bed* Try to 
write out, from these tableaus, 
groups of meditations similar to 
those you have received in this 
course* 

Not until you have tried this for 
yourself will you discover how true 
it is that Tarot evokes what is in 
our minds, rather than putting some- 
thing into them* Here is one of the 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 31 


features of this course. Do not let 
the unin teres ting appearance of the 
tables keep you from making full use 
of them. 

When you write your meditations, 
use the first suggestion which comes 
to you as you look at a given Key. 
Sometimes it will be a bit of the 
symbolism which will start your 
train of thought. At other times, 
the Hebrew letter, or some of its 
attributions, will be what provokes 
a response. If you have worked 
faithfully with the Cube of Space in 
Tarot Fundi mentals , that will bring 
much to you. 

You will never exhaust the possi- 
bilities of Tarot. Remember, there 
are no less than 1,124,727,777,607, 
680,000 different ways in which the 
entire series of major trumps may be 
laid out, using all twenty-two Keys 
each time. To reckon the other pos- 
sibilities of group combination is 
beyond human calculation. No two 
combinations mean precisely the 
same. 

Now, just as Tarot is infinite in 
its combinations, so are there innu- 
merable ways to us& it. Up to now, 
the emphasis has been on yourself. 
In these first four courses, our aim 
has been to put you in possession of 
the fundamental knowledge requisite 
for you to practice intelligent 
self-direction • 


- 7 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 31 


Yet the wisdom of Tarot has to do 


also with the art of directing the 
great cosmic forces which surround 
you, and which are playing through 
you. Again, Tarot has to do with 
the relationships existing between 
your personality and other human 
units constituting the social order 
in which you live. 

Before one may hope to understand 
others, he must know himself. Be- 
fore one may serve or direct others, 
he must have established some degree 
of self-command. {’Hitherto, your 
work with Tarot has been planned to 
prepare you for wider responsibili- 
ties. The time approaches when you 
must assume sone of these, as part 
of your further occult training.) 



worked persistently 


and faithfully with the material 
which we have put into your hands, 
you have become a personality very 
different from the one who opened 
the first lesson of Seven Steps . 
New vistas have shown themselves to 
you. Ideas which may have been dif- 
ficult at first are now easier to 
grasp. Changes have been made in 
your mentality, and transformations 
have been effected in the chemistry 
of your body. ( You are now ready to 
render a wider service to humanity.) 

Hitherto you have been an Associ- 
ate. As soon as you have submitted 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 31 


your replies to the questions you 
will find at the end of the next 
lesson, you will, if your answers 
are satisfactory, be promoted to the 
status of a Corresponding Probation- 
er of the B. 0. T. A. As such, you 
will be a mere active unit in the 
body of our association, and will 
have access to instructions reserved 
for our more active members * 

You will find that your membership 
makes a decided difference in a num- 
ber of ways B You will make a closer 
contact with the inner powers, behind 
the outer organization of B. 0, T, A, 
and this 1 i v i n g_ c o n t a c t you will 
find helpful and useful in many ways, 

^Behind the external form of our 
organization is a living spirit 
which is a mighty source of power 
for those who are linked with i t,j/ 
As a Corresponding Probationer, you 
will be in a position to receive 
manifestations of this power such as 
could not be experienced by persons 
unprepared for them* Through the 
work you have already accomplished, 
you have made a definite change iri 
your status. From now on, as you 
demonstrate your abilities, veu will 
be given opportunities for further 
advancement, 

In the next, and last, lesson of 
this series, you will be given some 
additional instruction in the con- 

• 9 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 31 


Crete application of Tarot to living 
the awakened life* There, too, you 
will find an outline of the extreme- 
ly useful and interesting studies 
which will follow this course, and 
these will come to you every week, 
as soon as you have passed the short 
test at the end of Tarot Interpreta- 
tion. 


- 10 - 



TAROT INTERPRETATION 
LESSON THIRTY- TWO 

THIS FINAL lesson is intended to 
point out various ways to use the 
combinations of Tarot Keys, apart 
from their employment in exercises 
in meditation* 

Suppose you have a specific prob- 
lem. Consider it carefully. When 
you have done so, it will be rela- 
tively easy to determine what Key 
symbolizes the essential nature of 
the problem. Then select one of. the 
tableaus or magic squares in which 
that Key is a central unit. Lay 
this arrangement of Keys before you, 
and look at it, with the definite 
intention of letting it evoke from 
your inner consciousness an intima- 
tion of what should be your next 
s tep . 

Do not try to force an answer. 
Sit ten or fifteen minutes, with 
pencil and paper at hand for notes 
of any ideas which may come to you. 
If none come at the first sitting, 
do not be discouraged. Sometimes 
these hints from within come during 
the course of the day, after the 
morning practice with the Keys. Of- 
ten they pop into your head just as 
you are waking the next morning. 


- 1 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 


However t-his may work out, be sure 
to follow the suggestion. 

Another use of the squares and 
tableaus, is to give you a -better un- 
derstanding of your own individual!? 
t p and personality. To learn more 
about your individuality, use the 
squares and tableaus in which the 
central unit is the Key correspond- 
ing to your Sun sign. To learn more 
about your personality, use the 
squares and tableaus in which the 
central unit is the Key representing 
your rising sign; also those in 
which the central unit is the place 
of the Moon in your natal chart. If 
you do not know your rising sign, or 
the place of the Moon, consult some 
astrological friend. For one who 
knows even the rudiments of astrolo- 
gy, it is easy to determine the 
place of the Sun and the Moon, by 
sign, simply by referring to an eph- 
emeris for the year of your birth. 
Unless you know your birth-hour, the 
rising sign is not so easy to deter- 
mine; But a great deal of insight 
into your own make-up can be gained 
by following this method with the 
Keys corresponding to the positions 
of the Sun and the Moon. 

By using the same method, you may 
get a better understanding of the 
lives of persons with whom you are 
associated. Even those who puzzle 


- 2 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 

or annoy you may be less of a mys- 
tery, if you use Tarot to help you 
get below the surface of their out- 
ward behavior. 

You may also use these combina- 
tions of Keys to develop a better 
knowledge of the particular prin- 
ciples and laws concerned with the 
realisation of your heart's desire. 
What you want to be and do, more 
than anything else, is an expression 
of a principle symbolized by one of 
the Tarot Keys, It may take a lit- 
tle time to determine which Key 
stands for what you want, but you 
will find it, if you look. 

By now you understand that even 
the solid objects of your environ- 
ment are actually. embodiments of, 
seed ideas in the Universal Mind. 
Tarot is a catalogue of bhe funda- 
mental seed ideas, and of their re- 
lations, one to another. Thus you 
may employ it to help you make clear 
images of the germinal principles 
from which the particular forms of 
expression you wish to experience 
are to be developed. 

What Jung calls the 4 4 collective 
unconscious'' is a vast reservoir of 
these seed ideas. They are held 
therein as symbols . As The Chaldean 
Oracles say: 4 'The Father of gods 

and men placed the mirid (nous) in 
the soul (psyche); and placed both 


- 3 - 


TAROT iMLRPRETATION: 32 

in the (human) body; The Paternal 
Mind hath sown symbols in the soul.” 
Here what is called 1 * soul * 9 is what 
is called 41 psyche 1 ' throughout the 
New Testament, where it is distin- 
guished from 4 ‘pneuma,'' or the mode 
of the Life-power symbolized by the 
various masculine figures of Tarot. 

To be dominated by this level of 
our consciousness is to be what 
St. Paul calls the 4 ‘natural man . 9 9 
It is to be within the fatal field 
of influences which Jacob Boehme 
termed the * 4 astral spirit .' 9 It is 
to be caught in the web of Maya. 
Nevertheless, the symbols in the 
collective unconscious are the seeds 
of all possible combinations of phy- 
sical conditions which may be exper- 
ienced by mankind. 

To be able to evoke the images 
which correspond to the conditions 
we desire to has<e manifested in our 
surroundings is to possess a key to 
extraordinary exercise of power. We 
do not escape from domination by the 
4 ‘astral spirit ' 9 by ignoring it. 
We do not break the web of Maya by 
trying to destroy Maya itself. What 
liberates us is right use of the 
symbols sown in the soul. 

These seed ideas are actually the 
basis of all physical conditions 
known to man. If you remember that 
the entire structure of the physical 


- 4 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION ' - 

universe is made up of some ninety- 
two combinat ions of elect rons^ *• the 
combination of electrons in a. cer- 
tain numerical relationship being 
what physics calls ah element--you 
will be able tcf grasp the truth that: 
the complexity of the universe is 
the expression of a relatively small 
number of principles, which are the 
basis of everything in our experi- 
ence. l .> : . 

Furthermore , the esoteric doctrine 
behind Tarot includes the explicit 
staicement that all physical manifes- 
tation is the consequence of the 
creative mental activity of the Ori- 
ginating Spirit. That Spirit is om- 
nipresent, and is therefore present 
in man. Today, as always, it cre- 
ates by processes of thought. . From 
our self-conscious human point. of 
view, it appears that the physical 
universe, its energies and^ laws, are 
things given. They were here before 
we appeared pn the scene. They will 
be here after we leave it» 

So far as this goes, Ageless Wis-r 
dom agrees with it, but says -the, 
truth of the matter goes even farth- 
er. As persons, we had noth ing . to 
do with our appearance on the scene. 
As persons , we do not set the stage. 
But within our personality dwells a 
higher life, which is the real Being 
assuming the outward mask of the 
personal existence. 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 


This real Being, the true I AM 
within us, is the only God there is* 
This is the inner significance of 
the statement in Exodus to the ef- 
fect that the Name of God is n'HK, 
Eheyeh, or I AM. In Hebrew, Eheyeh 
is the present indicative of the 
verb ‘‘to be.’’ Thus the Bible 
tells us that the true f 1 God'* 9 is 
simply what really is, and thjat the 
only intelligible name of God is 
simply the announcement of Absolute 
Being--I AM, without a predicate. 

All versions of Ageless Wisdom 
bring us to this idea* All agree 
that the true Self at the center of 
every personality is identical with 
the Originating Spirit. Identical 
with it, not derived from it. Per- 
sonality is derived. The Self is 
ONE. 

Fortunately for us, we do not have 
to grasp the full meaning of this 
truth in order to use the power it 
gives us* We simply ha*e to act as 
if it were true. This is the basis 
of true theurgy, or God-working, as 
contrasted with various forms of 
sorcery, which aim to bolster up the 
weakness of human personality by 
calling outside entities to its aid. 

A 

Much which passes for religion is 
actually a form of sorcery. When 
prayer is conceived as being a 
method whereby the person praying 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 


li tion 

of an 

in- 

“ to modify 

ex- 

cause 

it is 

th£ 

> pass 

every 

ex- 

r such 

praye: 

r is 

t cults 

\ have 

had 

truth 

. So 

far 


flatters, or compels, some being 
outside to fulfil his desires, that 
prayer is a form of false magic. 
When prayer is rec 
dwelling power, a 
ternal conditions 
power which brings 
ternal manifestati 
true theurgy. 

Various New Thou 
some glimpse of t 
as it goes, their method of proce- 
dure is correct; but it often is lim- 
ited by misunderstanding of the law 
whereby that method produces re- 
sults. CThe law is the law of focus- 
ing creative seed ideas in subcon- 
sciousness. This is the law at work 
in all our use of Tarot^ 

Man’s place in the cosmic order is 
to act as a distributor for the pow- 
er of Originating Spirit. Man is 
able to bring into actual, concrete 
manifestation new combinations of 
the seed ideas in Universal Mind. By 
so doing, he * * cont rols 9 9 the forces 
of his environment, and brings into 
tangible existence, on the physical 
plane, conditions which would never 
make their appearance but for the 
action of human self-consciousness. 

Actually, of course, man does, not 
exert personal control of circum- 
stance, even when he is a:ile to per- 
form works of power which seem like 


- 7 -. 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 

miracles* 4 For true theurgy is based 
on recognition that none of us ever 
does anything of himself* We do not 
control. We act as conscious in- 
struments of the original Creative 
Power, which operates through us — 
always in harmony with its immutable 
laws* When we are awakened from the 
dream of separateness, we know the 
indwelling presence of this Creative 
Power, and are made aware of its 
laws of manifestation* Then we sim- 
ply obey what we know, and the re- 
sults amaze all who do not share the 
wisdom which comes from within and 
above. • : • . 

The beginning of this modification 
of man's environment was probably 
the domestication of wild animals, 
by subjecting their lower order of 
intelligence to human directions 
Then came agriculture, establishing 
special condi tions in which grass 
was transformed into grain, as 
Luther Burbank proved conclusively. 
Step by step, man's consciousness 
was fashioned by the Life-power, and 
through combinations of energy known 
as tools (for every mechanism in- 
vented by man is actually, as modern 
physics shows, a special adaptation 
of invisible powers, and these invi- 
sible powers, which our mental in- 
terpretation of sensations calls 
' 4 things, ' ' are. various forms of 


- 8 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 


electro-magnetic energy), man ex- 
tended the empire of self-conscious- 
ness over subconsciousness. So was 
developed the complex system of art- 
ifices whereby the forces in our en- 
vironment have been made to serve us. 

What has not been well understood 
is that human personality is the 
finest tool of all, and, lika other 
tools, may be improved. Human per- 
sonality, even now, does express the 
Administrative Intelligence symbol- 
ized by Tarot Key 21. When one rea- 
lizes this* it becomes perfect human 
personality. By * ^perfect, V as .we 
use it here, we do not mean that 
personality is to be brought to a 
state such as is, by some thinkers, 
conceived as absolute perfection. 
What we mean is that the average man 
or woman is far from living up to 
the true standard of personality. 
As brought into existence by what 
may be called the general averages 
of the evolutionary process, human 
personality is only ‘‘man in the 
rough , '' like an early model of some 
invention* Even the more 9 4 ad- 
vanced* 1 races (as their members 
like to imagine) are by no means 
perfected instruments for the Life- 
power’ s pelf- express ion. Further- 
more, members of supposedly 1 ‘back- 
ward* ’ races may, and do, equal, and 
sometimes surpass, the achievements 
of members of races which, until 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 


very recently, were supposed to be 
the * 4 flower of humanity * 99 

There are no superior, and no in- 
ferior races* Superior personali- 
ties predominate over superior ones 
in every race, when one simply 
counts heads. We have to learn the 
lesson of Key 14* Wherever a super- 
ior personality appears, that person 
always knows that he has been fash- 
ioned by the Life-power, and not by 
''himself.*' This is one of the 
distinguishing characteristics of 
every truly superior man or woman. 

Yet it is also true that before 
this higher self-knowledge blossoms 
into full splendor, a preparatory 
period, during which one seems to be 
in the midst of a sharp conflict, to 
be making intense personal effort, 
precedes the actual realization. 
Mere lip-service to the idea that 
the Life-power is the only Thinker 
and the only Actor is not enough; 
and the wise agree that even the 
perfected personality, except in 
rare moments of ecstasy, remains in 
the illusion of separateness. Con- 
sequently, he must exert what seems 
to be ‘‘his*’ will, but all his ex- 
ertion consists in the effort to 
surrender that will to the One Will, 
to ''dive into the depths of Pure 
Being . 99 In the outer affairs of 
human existence, such a person is 


- 10 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 

active, industrious, and assiduous. 
The main difference is that, though 
he experiences the same illusions as 
the rest of mankind, he is never de- 
luded by them. Thus his whole moti- 
vation is different, and so is his 
main purpose. 

Such a perfected human personality 
knows, even in the early stages of 
his awakening, the wonderful truth 
that the destiny of man is to go be - 
yond humanity, Man is truly the Son 
of God, and, as the old Rosicrucian 
aphorism puts it, * ‘There is no God 
but Man, 9 ' In every man's innermost 
being, the ^essentia l Reality is what 
we call 4 ‘God , 9 9 

Human personality, however, masks 
this true nature rf f man, and this 
mask. makes unenlightened human be- 
ings appear to one another as ani- 
mals, or even as mere objects. When 
we say this, we mean that this delu- 
sion is characteristic of the great- 
er number of persons in incarnation 
at present. There are, happily, 
some men who have escaped from this 
delusion, and to them we ow.e the 
Ageless Wisdom which tells us we are 
destined to become true sons and 
daughters of the Most High, able to 
act as the human instruments whereby 
truly divine powers may be brought 
to bear on man's own nature, and, 
through that regenerated nature, on 

- 11 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 

human environment and human society. 

The power which condensed the phy- 
sical objects is present in us all. 
It works from the center outward. 
The laws whereby it. works are sum- 
marized in Tarot, and Tarot is one 
of several symbols of the Creative 
Pattern. We may follow this pattern 
so as to produce selected results* 
Using Tarot in this way, we estab- 
lish in our field of personal sub- 
consciousness the particular seed 
ideas which are the universal basis 
for the forms we desire to see a- 
round us. This is true theurgy. 

There is, of course, no intrinsic 
power in a Tarot Key. It is not 
Tarot that works. A Tarot Key is 
merely a pictorial announcement of 
some principle or law of life. It 
influences subconsciousness because 
the natural language of the collect- 
ive subconsciousness is pictorial 
imagery. While you bold the image 
of a given Key in your conscious- 
ness, your subconsciousness is being 
impressed with the meaning of that 
image. 

Day after day, week after week, 
you hade given conscious attention 
to various combinations of Tarot 
symbols. This work may haee seemed 
more or less mechanical. It may be 
that you have not been tremendously 
thrilled by it. S e ed - p 1 an t i ng , 


- 12 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 


after all f is not so very exciting* 
But, if you have stuck to your prac- 
tice, you have been impressing your 
subconsciousness with the fundament- 
al principles of the universal crea- 
tive process. 


By using many different combina- 
tions of the Keys, you avoided the 
danger of specializing on those 
which, for one reason or another, 
you fancied, while neglecting others 
which, for you, lack superficial 
appeal. Thus this course, besides 
adding to your general knowledge of 
Tarot symbolism, has provided you 
with daily exercises in the employ- 
ment of the subtle power of pictori- 
al suggestion* 


You are now ready for another step 
ahead* In the months to come, you 
will make further use of your Tarot 
knowledge to prepare for the exer- 
cise of powers truly divine. 


Here let us remind you that 
was invented by the same Inner 
School which first brought the True 
and Invisible Rosicrucian Order to 
the notice of the erudite of Europe, 
early in the seventeenth century* 
The doctrine and practice veiled by 
Tarot is true Rosicrucianism. It is 
a combination of the Secret Wisdom 
of Israel, concealed by the letter 
of the Old Testament, with the 
Gnosis veiled in the language of the 
New Testament. 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 

This Gnosis is identical with the 
Gupta Vidya of India, and with the 
esoteric doctrine of Egypt and Chal- 
dea. It is the fulfilment and per-; 
faction, but by no means the ajj rpga -^ 
tion_, of the ancient Hermetic Wisdom. 
Hence much of it is to be found in 
such fragments as are preserved in 
The Chaldean Oracles t and other par- 
tial survivals of the writings of 
the Neo-Platonists and Neo-Pythago- 
reans. Traces of the. same doctrine 
are to be_ found in the. books of Iam- 
blichus, Plutarch and Philo. 

Yet another source of instruction 
is to be found in the books of genu- 
ine alchemists. Eliphas Levi tells 
us that without Tarot the true mean- 
ing of these cryptic writings is un- 
decipherable, but becomes plain to 
the person properly instructed in 
Tarot symbolism. f 


True alchemy has much in common 
with the. Hindu philosophy and prac- 
tice; of Yoga. Indeed, alchemy might 
be termed the Western Yoga. It is 
a method of training whereby those 
who undertake it are arle to work, 
principally by mental means, in the 
laboratories of their own physical 
bodies. The . al chemist himself is 
the primary subject of the Great 
Work. ^ Success in this wo^TTs^aT^ 
tained when the alchemist has trans- 
muted his own body, so that it may 


- 14 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATIONS: 32 

express a higher order of conscious- 
ness, beyond the limits, of ordinary 
human personality. With this higher 
consciousness go powers beyond those 


of the ordinary man. 

As a Corresponding Probationer you 
will be given a thorough grounding 
in the secret wisdom which is behind 
Tarot and alchemy. The next courses 
of instruction, The Master Pattern, 
The Tree of Life, and The Thirty-Two 
Paths of Wisdom, contain the essence 
of this wisdom, and of its applica- 
tion to the practical art of living. 
Following these is Sound and Color, 
which gives instruct ion in the use 
of sound and light for healing. Then 
comes the final course of alchemical 
inslcruction, Pr inciples and Practice 
of the Great Work . This ends our 
outer curriculum. It is not all we , 
have to impart, but it is the last 
word we have to say to persons who 
have not taken the steps which are 
necessary for full participation in 
the inner work of B.O.T.A. Even 
these five courses mentioned above 
should he entered upon with the at- 
titude expressed by the signing and 
sending to us the application on the 
following page, which we now ask' you 
to do. The inner work is even more 
closely guarded, because we are ob- 
ligated to maintain the same re- 
serves under which it was imparted 
to us. 


- 15 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 

1. State briefly your purpose in 
seeking to become further acquainted 
with our work. 

2. Submit three examples of medi- 
tations based on the Tarot Keys, as 
explained in the preceding lesson. 

3. What is your understanding of 
the term, ‘‘Magic of Light'*? 

4. Name the seven stages of 
spiritual unfoldment. 

Copy in your own handwriting, the 
fol lowing application: 

I hereby make application to con- 
tinue my association with B.O.T.A., 
as Corresponding Probationer. 

I will not lend or circulate the 
lessons I receive as Cor respon ding 
Probationer, nor will I use this 
material in giving instruction to 
others, unless authorized to do so. 

I hereby express my earnest inten- 
tion to employ all knowledge and 
power I may now possess, or- later 
develop as a result of these advanc- 
ed studies, for the express purpose 
of promoting human welfare, regard- 
less of race, caste, color or creed. 

I will work quietly and persistently 
to apply what I learn to further the 
cause of better undersl canding , har- 
mony, and peace among all my associ- 
ates, in my home, in my vocation, 
and in my social contacts of every 
nature. 


Date- 


Signed, 




TAROT INTERPRETATION 
LESSON THIRTY- TWO 

THIS FINAL lesson is intended to 
point out various ways to use the 
combinations of Tarot Keys, apart 
from their employment in exercises 
in meditation. 

Suppose you have a specific prob- 
lem. Consider it carefully. When 
you have done so, it will be rela- 
tively easy to determine what Key 
symbolizes the essential nature of 
the problem. Then select one of the 
tableaus or magic squares in which 
that Key is a central unit. Lay 
this arrangement of Keys before you, 
and look at it, with the definite 
intention of letting it evoke from 
your inner consciousness an intima- 
tion of what should be your next 
s tep . 

Do not try to force an answer. 
Sit ten or fifteen minutes, with 
pencil and paper at hand for notes 
of any ideas which may come to you. 
If none come at the first sitting, 
do not be discouraged. Sometimes 
these hints from within come during 
the course of the day, after the 
morning practice with the Keys, Of- 
ten they pop into your head just as 
you are waking the next morning. 


- 1 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 


However this may work out, be sure 
to follow the suggestion. 

Another use of the squares and 
tableaus is to give you a better un- 
derstanding of your own individuali- 
ty and personality. To learn more 
about your individuality, use the 
squares and tableaus in which the 
central unit is the Key correspond- 
ing to your Sun sign. To learn more 
about your personality, use the 
squares and tableaus in which the 
central unit is the Key representing 
your rising sign; also those in 
which the central unit is the place 
of the Moon in your natal chart. If 
you do not know your rising sign, or 
theplace of the Moon, consult some 
astrological friend. For one who 
knows even the rudiments of astrolo- 
gy, it is easy to determine the 
place of the Sun and the Moon,, by 
sign, simply by referring to an eph- 
emeris for the year of your birth. 
Unless you know your birth-hour, the 
rising sign is not so easy to deter- 
mine. But a great deal of insight 
into your own make-up can be gained 
by following this method with the 
Keys corresponding to the positions 
of the Sun and the Moon. 

By using the same method, you may 
get a better unde rs t anding of the 
lives of persons with whom you are 
associated. Even those who puzzle 


- 2 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 

or annoy you may be less of a mys- 
tery, if you use Tarot to help you 
get below the surface of their out- 
ward behavior. 

You may also use these combina- 
tions of Keys to develop a better 
knowledge of the particular prin- 
ciples and laws concerned with the 
realization of your heart's desire. 
What you want to be and do, more 
than anything else, is an expression 
of a principle symbolized by one of 
the Tarot Keys. It may take a lit- 
tle time to determine which Key 
stands for what you want, but you 
will find it, if you look. 

By now you understand that even 
the solid objects of your environ- 
ment are actually embodiment s o f 
seed ideas in the Universal Mind. 
Tarot is a catalogue of fehe funda- 
mental seed ideas, and of their re- 
lations, one to another. Thus you 
may employ it to help you make clear 
images of the germinal principles 
from which the particular forms of 
expression you wish to experience 
are to be developed. 

What Jung calls the * 'collective 
unconscious'/ is a vast reservoir of 
the.se seed ideas. They are held 
therein as symbols, \s The Chaldean 
Orac les say: 4 4 The Father of gods 

and men placed the mind (nous) in 
the soul (psyche); and placed both 


- 3 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 

in the (human) body. The Paternal 
Mind hath sown symbols in the soul. '' 
Here what is called 1 4 soul'' is what 
is called 41 psyche* ' throughout the 
New Testament, where it is distin- 
guished from ' ‘pneuma, * * or the mode 
of the Life-power symbolized by the 
various masculine figures of Tarot. 

To be dominated by this level of 
our. consciousness is to be what 
St. Paul calls the ‘ ‘natural man. * ' 
It is to be within the fatal field 
of influences which Jacob Boehme 
termed the 41 astral spirit.*' It is 
to be caught in the web of Maya. 
Nevertheless, the symbols in the 
collective unconscious are the seeds 
of all possible combinations of phy- 
sical conditions which may be exper- 
ienced by mankind. 

To be able to evoke the images 
which correspond to the conditions 
we desire to has<e manifested in our 
surroundings is to possess a key to 
extraordinary exercise of power. We 
do not escape from domination by the 
4 ‘astral spirit'' by ignoring it. 
We do not break the web of Maya by 
trying to destroy Maya itself. What 
liberates us is right use of the 
symbols sown in the soul. 

These seed ideas are actually the 
basis of all physical conditions 
known to man. If you remember that 
the entire structure of the physical 


- 4 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION “ 

universe rs made, up-of some ninety- 
two combinations of elect rons-- the 
combination of electrons in a cer-~ 
tain numerical relationship being 
w^hat physics calls an element- -you 
will be able to grasp -the truth that 
the complexity of the universe i$ 
the expression, of a relatively small 
number of principles, which are the 
basis of everything in ? our experi- 
ence. : i : < 

Furthermore, the esoteric doctrine 
behind Tarot includes the explicit 
st a! cement that all physical manifes- 
tation is the consequence of the 
creative mental activity, of the Ori- 
ginating Spirit. ; That Spirit is om- 
nipresent, and is therefore present 
in man. Today, as always, it cre- 
ates by* processes. of thought:. From 
our self-conscious human point of 
view, it appears that the physical 
universe, its energies an4 laws, are 
things given. They were here before 
we appeared on the scene.. They will 
be here after we leave it. 

So far as this goes, .Ageless Wis- 
dom agrees with it, but says the 
truth of the mat ter goes , even farth- 
er. As p*. arsons, we had nothing to 
do with our appearance on the scene. 
As persons, we do not set the stage. 
But within our personality dwells a 
higher life, which is the real Being 
assuming the outward mask of the 
personal existence. 

- 5 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 


This real Being, the true I AM 
within us f is the only God there is. 
This is the inner significance of 
the statement in Exodus to the ef- 
fect that the Name of God is n'HK, 
Eheyeh, or I AM. In Hebrew, Eheyeh 
is the present indicative of the 
verb “to be.'* Thus the Bible 
tells us that the true ‘‘God*’ is 
simply what really is, and that the 
only intelligible name of God is 
simply the announcement of Absolute 
Being--I AM, without a predicate. 

All versions of Ageless Wisdom 
bring us to this idea. All agree 
that the true Self at the center of 
every personality is identical with 
the Originating Spirit. Identical 
with it, not derived from it. Per- 
sonality is derived. The Self is 
ONE. • ' 

Fortunately for us, we do not have 
to grasp the full meaning of this 
truth in order to use the power it 
gives us. We simply have to act as 
if it were true. This is the basis 
of true theurgy, or God-working, as 
contrasted with various forms of 
sorcery, which aim to bolster up the 
weakness of human personality by 
calling outside entities to its aid. 

Much which passes for religion is 
actually a form of sorcery. When 
prayer is conceived as being a 
method whereby the person praying 


- 6 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 

flatters, or compels, some being 
outside to fulfil his desires, that 
prayer is a form of false magic* 
When prayer is recognition of an in- 
dwelling power, a: lie to modify ex- 
ternal conditions because it is the 
power which brings to pass every ex- 
ternal manifestation, such prayer is 
true theurgy* 

Various New Thought cults have had 
some glimpse of this truth* So far 
as it goes, their method of proce- 
dure is correct; but it often is lim- 
ited by misunderstanding of the law 
whereby that method produces re- 
sults* The law is the law of focus- 
ing creative seed ideas in subcon- 
sciousness* This is the law at work 
in all our use of Tarot* 

Man's place in the cosmic order is 
to act as a distributor for the pow- 
er of Originating Spirit. Man is 
able to bring into actual, concrete 
manifestation new combinations of 
the seed ideas in Universal Mind. By 
so doing, he 4 * cont rols 9 * the forces 
of his environment, and Brings into 
tangible existence, on the physical 
plane, conditions which would never 
make their appearance but for the 
action of human self-consciousness. 

Actually, of course, man does not 
exert personal control of circum- 
stance, even when he is a:ile to per- 
form works of power which seem like 


- 7 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 

miracles. For true theurgy is based 
on recognition that none of us ever 
does anything of himself. We do not 
control. We act as conscious in- 
struments of the original Creative 
Power, which operates through us-- 
always in harmony with its immutable 
laws. When we are awakened from the 
dream of separateness, we know the 
indwelling presence of this Creative 
Power, and are made aware of its 
laws of manifestation. Then we sim- 
ply obey what we know, and the re- 
sults amaze all who do not share the 
wisdom which comes from within and 
above, ; . 

The. beginning of this modification 
of man's environment was probably 
the domestication of wild animals, 
by subjecting their lower order of 
i n t e 1 1 i gen c e t o human dir e c ti on. 
Then came agriculture, establishing 
special conditions in which grass 
was transformed into grain, as 
Luther Burbank proved conclusively. 
Step by step, man's consciousness 
was fashioned by the Life-power, and 
through combinations of energy known 
as tools (for every mechanism in- 
vented by man is actually, as modern 
physics shows, a special adaptation 
of invisible powers, and these invi- 
sible powers, which our mental in- 
terpretation of sensations calls 
V* things,'' are various forms of 


- 8 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION : 32 


electro-magnetic energy), man ex- 
tended the empire of self-conscious- 
ness over subconsciousness. So was 
developed the complex system of art- 
ifices whereby the forces in our en- 
vironment have been made to serve us. 

What has not been well understood 
is that human personality is the 
finest tool of all, and, like other 
tools, may be improved. Human per- 
sonality, even now, does express the 
Administrative Intelligence symbol- 
ized by Tarot Key 21. When one rea- 
lizes this, it becomes perfect human 
personality. By * per feet, 99 as we 
use it here,, we do not mean that 
personality is to be, brought to a 
state such as is, by some thinkers, 
conceived as absolute perfection. 
What we mean is that the average man 
or woman is far from living up to 
the true standard of personality. 
As brought into existence by what 
may be called the general averages 
of the evolutionary process, human 
personality is only “man in the 
rough , 99 like an early model of some 
invention.* Even the more * ‘ ad- 
vanced* * races (as their members 
like to imagine) are by no means 
perfected instruments for the ’Life- 
power’s self-expression. Further- 
more, members of supposedly * ‘back- 
ward* # races may, and do, equal, and 
sometimes surpass, the achievements 
of members of races which, until 


- 9 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 

very recently, were supposed to be 
the 4 4 flower of humanity . f 9 

There are no superior, .and no in- 
ferior races. Superior personali- 
ties predominate over superior ones 
in every race, when one simply 
counts heads. We have to learn the 
lesson of Key 14. Wherever a super- 
ior personality appears, that person 
always knows* that he has been fash- 
ioned by the Life-power, and not by 
44 himself. ft This is one of the 
dis tinguishing' characteristics of 
every truly superior man or woman. 

Yet it is also true that before 
this higher self-knowledge blossoms 
into full splendor, a preparatory 
period, during which one seems to be 
in the midst of a sharp conflict, to 
be making intense personal effort, 
precedes the actual realization. 
Mere lip-service to the. idea. that 
the Life-power is the only Thinker 
and the only Actor is not enough; 
and the wise agree that even the 
perfected personality, except in 
rare moments of ecstasy, remains in 
the illusion of separateness. Con- 
sequently, he must exert what seems 
to be 44 his'' will, but all his ex- 
ertion consists in the effort to 
surrender that will to the One Will, 
to 4 "dive into the depths of Pure 
Being . 4 9 In the outer affairs of 
human existence, such a person is 


- 10 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 


active, industrious, and assiduous* 
The main difference is that, though 
he experiences the same illusions as 
the rest of mankind, he is never de- 
luded by them. Thus his whole moti- 
vation is different, and so is his 
main purpose. 

Such a perfected human personality 
knows, even in the early stages of 
his awakening, the wonderful truth 
that the destiny of man is to go be- 
yond humanity. Man is truly the Son 
of God, and, as the old Rosicrucfan 
aphorism puts it, * ‘There is no God 
but Man. ' * In every man's innermost 
being, th e , essential Reality is what 
we call 4 ‘God . 9 9 

Human personality, however, masks 
this true nature cff man, and this 
mask makes unenlightened human be- 
ings appear to one another as ani- 
mals, or even as mere objects. When 
we say this, we mean that this delu- 
sion is characteristic of the great- 
er number of persons in incarnation 
at present. There are, happily, 
some men who have escaped from this 
delusion, and to them we owe the 
Ageless Wisdom which tells us we are 
destined to become true sons and 
daughters of the Most High, able to 
act as the human instruments whereby 
truly divine powers may be brought 
to bear on man's own nature, and, 
through that regenerated nature, on 


- 11 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 


human environment and human society* 

The power which condensed the phy- 
sical objects is present in us all. 
It works from the center outward. 
The laws whereby it works are sum- 
marized in Tarot, and Tarot is one 
of several symbols of the Creative 
Pattern. We may follow this pattern 
so as to produce selected results* 
Using Tarot in this way, we estab- 
lish in our field of personal sub- 
consciousness the particular seed 
ideas which are the universal basis 
for the forms we desire to see a- 
round us. This is true theurgy, 

There is, of course, no intrinsic 
power in a Tarot Key. It is not 
Tarot that works.' A Tarot Key is 
merely a pictorial announcement of 
some principle or law of life. It 
influences subconsciousness because 
the natural language of the collect- 
ive subconsciousness is pictorial 
imagery. While you hold the image 
of a given Key in your conscious- 
ness, your subconsciousness is being 
impressed with the meaning of that 
image. ■ - ? 

Day after day, week after week, 
you hade given conscious attention 
to various combinations of Tarot 
symbols. This work may haee seemed 
more or less mechanical. It may be 
that you have not been tremendously 
thrilled by it* S e ed - p 1 ant i ng , 


- 12 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 

after all, is not so very exciting. 
But, if you have stuck to your prac- 
tice, you have been impressing your 
subconsciousness with the fundament- 
al principles of the universal crea- 
tive process. 

By using many different combina- 
tions of the Keys, you avoided the 
danger of specializing on those 
which, for one reason or another, 
you fancied, while neglecting others 
which, for you, lack superficial 
appeal. Thus this course, besides 
adding to your general knowledge of 
Tarot symbolism, has provided you 
with daily exercises in the employ- 
ment of the subtle power of pictori- 
al suggestion. 

You are now ready for another step 
ahead. In the months to come, you 
will make further use of your Tarot 
knowledge to prepare for the exer- 
cise of powers truly divine. 

Here let us remind you that Tarot 
was invented by the same Inner 
School which first brought the True 
and Invisible Rosicrucian Order to 
the notice of the erudite of Europe, 
early in the seventeenth century. 
The doctrine and practice veiled by 
Tarot is. true Rosicrucianism. It is 
a combination of the Secret Wisdom 
of Israel, concealed by the letter 
of the Old Testament, with the 
Gnosis veiled in the language of the 
New Testament. 


- 13 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 

This Gnosis is identical with the 
Gupta Vidya of India, and with the 
esoteric doctrine of Egypt and Chal- 
dea* It is the fulfilment and per- 
fection, but by no means the afroga- 
tion, of the ancient Hermetic Wisdom. 
Hence much of it is to be found in 
such fragments as are preserved in 
The Chaldean Oracles, and other par- 
tial survivals of the writings of 
the Neo-Platonist s and Neo-Pythago- 
reans. Traces of the same doctrine 
are to be, found in the, books of Iam- 
blichus, Plutarch and Philo. 

Yet another source pf instruction 
is to be found in the books of genu- 
ine alchemists. Eliphas Levi tells 
us that without Tarot the true mean- 
ing of these cryptic writings is un- 
decipherable, but becomes plain to 
the person properly instructed in 
Tarot symbolism. 

True alchemy has much in common 
with the. Hindu philosophy and prac- 
tice of Yoga, Indeed, alchemy might 
be termed the Western Yoga. It is 
a method of training whereby those 
who undertake it are arle to work, 
principally by mental means, in the 
laboratories of their own physical 
bodies. The alchemist himself is 
the primary subject of the Great 
Work, Success in this work is at- 
tained when the alchemist has trans- 
muted his own body, so that it may 


- 14 - 


: Jif -ij- r 

TAROT INTERPRETATIONS: 32 

. • *V ' y, J f 

express a higher order of conscious- 
ness, beyond the limits, of ordinary 
human personality. With this higher 
consciousness go powers beyond those 
of the ordinary man. 

As a Corresponding Probationer you 
will be given a thorough grounding 
in the secret wisdom which is behind 
Tarot and alchemy. The next courses 
of instruction, The Master Pattern, 
The Tree of Life, and The Thirty+Two 
Paths of Ytisdom, contain the essence 
of this wisdom, and of its applica- 
tion to the practical art of living. 
Following these is Sound and Color , 
which gives instruction in the use 
of sound and light for healing. Then 
comes the final course of alchemical 
inslcruction, Pr inciples and Practice 
of the Great Work. This ends our 
outer curriculum. It is not all we 
have to impart, but it is the last 
word we have to say to. persons who 
have not taken the steps which are 
necessary for full participation in 
the inner work of B.O.T.A. Even 
these five courses mentioned above 
should be entered upon with the at- 
titude expressed by the signing and 
sending to us the application on the 
following page, which we now ask you 
to do. The inner work is even more 
closely guarded, because we are ob- 
ligated to maintain the same re- 
serves under which it was imparted 
to us. 


- 15 - 


TAROT INTERPRETATION: 32 

1. State briefly your purpose in 
seeking to become further acquainted 
with our work. 

2. Submit three examples of medi- 
tations based on the Tarot Keys, as 
explained in the preceding lesson, 

3. What is your understanding of 
the term, 4 4 Magic of Light''? 

4* Name the seven stages of 
spiritual unfoldment. 

Copy in your own handwriting, the 
following application: 

I hereby make application to con- 
tinue my association wi th B. 0. T. A. , 
as Corresponding Probationer* 

I will not lend or circulate the 
lessons I receive as Corresponding 
Probationer, nor will I use this 
material in giving instruction to 
others, unless authorized to do so, 

I hereby express my earnest inten- 
tion to employ all knowledge and 
power I may now possess, or later 
develop as a result of these advanc- 
ed studies, for the express purpose 
of promoting human welfare, regard- 
less of race, caste, color or creed. 

I will work quietly and persistently 
to apply what I learn to further the 
cause of better undersl canding , har- 
mony, and peace among all my associ- 
ates, in my home, in my vocation, 
and in my social contacts of every 
nature. 


Date 


Signed, 




