## 1217 - One Thousand Two Hundred Seventeen

### [Sekhel Beth ha-Shepha](/keys/ShKL.BITh.HShPO) - שכל בית השפע
> Intelligence of the House of Influence. The title of the [18th Path](18) of [Cheth](/keys/Ch). Connects Binah, the great sea with the source of volition in Geburah. Represents the field (fence) or personality and is related to the quality of water. It is the channel of the abundant overflow of the fiery activity of the Life-power, taking form as objects, both "things" and "creatures". The possession of this path is to overcome the illusive power of these limitations by learning how to use them. The perception of reality wakes consciousness into the stage where no good and perfect gift is withheld. Those who make themselves receptive to the One Will manifest Will-power. This state of being is called the alchemical Philosopher's Stone. It is found in the Holy of Holies, the Adytum of the inner temple of superconsciousness. The field of mastery, is that of speech, both thought and vibratory combinations of sound vibrations. see [450](450), [100](100), [867](867), [414](414).

> The 18th path (Cheth, joining Binah to Geburah) is called the Intelligence of the House of Influence; and from the interior walls of its perfections the arcana flow down, with the hidden meanings concealed in their shadow, and therefrom is union with the innermost reality of the Most High. Influence suggests the notion of water. Shefah occurs once in the Old Testament, where it is translated "abundance." "They shall suck the abundance of the seas." Here the idea of abundance is directly connected with water. In this passage there is also an occult reference to time, because the word for "seas" is ימים, [yomim](/keys/IMIM), identical in spelling with a noun which signifies "days."

### See Also:

- [11](11)
- [2](2)
