## 1271 - One Thousand Two Hundred Seventy-One

### [Stauros](/greek?word=stauros) (Gr) - σταυρός
> Cross. Latin Crux. Relates to the letter Tav as the cross (Saturn) at the center of the cube. Some say Stauros is derived form its standing erect with its arms horizontal. Three forms of the cross are 1) the Tau cross, shaped like the capital letter T; 2) the cross formed from an opened out cube, called the cubical cross; and 3" the St. Andrew's cross, formed like a capital X. The X is the early from of the Hebrew letter Tav as shown of the 9th century B.C. inscription of Debon. see [406](406), [713](713), [126](126), [291](291), [400](400), [58](58) Latin.

### [Heh Gnosis](/greek?word=h+gnOsis) (Gr) - η γνῶσις
> the wisdom; i.e. chokmah, The secret wisdom is the Qabalah (Reception). The Gnosis is in very truth, based on knowledge of the true meaning of the Staurus. or cross, represented in the Hebrew alphabet by the letter Tav... the [Rosicrucian] manifestoes [Fama + Confessio] were announcing the work of the order of the rose-cross, inasmuch as the Greek word for "rose" is Rhodon, and its number, 294, is the number also of ekklesia, or "church." Rose-cross, therefore, would mean to the initiated, "Church of the Gnosis." [Paul Case: True and Invisible, page 42]. see [294](294), [137](137), [1378](1378), [73](73).

### [Heh kleronomia Hagion](/greek?word=h+klhronomia+agiOn) (Gr) - η κληρονομία ἁγίων
> the sacred inheritance. *"The cross would be a verbal symbol of a sacred treasure of wisdom, handed down from the wise men of other days, a Gnosis having to do with the secrets of time and space, summed up in the symbolism of the cubic stone of what the cross of 6 squares is a pattern."* [True and Invisible, Page 234].

### [He gemetria](/greek?word=h+geOmetri) (Gr) - η γεωμετρί
> the geometry. (??)

### See Also:

- [11](11)
- [2](2)