## 1378 - One Thousand Three Hundred Seventy-Eight
Σ[52](52) = 1378. [13](13)x[106](106), [26](26)x[53](53), [137](137)+[8](8). Birth Year of the Founder of the Rosicrucian Order. See [1484](1484).

[13](13) [echad](/keys/AChD) x [106](106) [Nun](/keys/NVN) = Unity x Perpetuity. [Genesis 1:28](http://biblehub.com/genesis/1-28.htm): *"And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply"*

> Paul Case: *"an erudite reader of the manifestoes would have noticed that the Founder of the Fraternity is said to have lived 106 years and that he was born in the year 1378. The first of these numbers is significant because 106 is the value of the letter name נון, nun, as ordinarily reckoned, with each נ taken as 50. The second is significant for various reasons, but first of all becuse 1378 is [13](13) (the number of אחד, Achad, 'unity,' and of אהבה, Ahebah, 'love') multiplied by [106](106). Thus, it suggests the multiplication of that Divine Unity, which is God and which the apostle declares in so many words to be Love itself, by the power of generation corresponding to the sing Scorpio and the letter Nun. And here we may call to mind the injunction recorded in Genesis 1:28: 'Be fruitful and multiply.'*

> *"The number 1378 is also [26](26) (the number of יהוה, Jehovah, the name of Names) multiplied by [53](53), the number of אבן, Ehben (Stone). Alchemists would have noticed this, because they thought of their Stone as something that had the power of multiplication.... hence, it follows that whatever is transmuted or multiplied by the Stone is really an aspect of the One Thing, which One Thing is actually the supreme Reality denoted by the name of God, Jehovah.*

> *"Inspection of the number 1378 would have shown any erudite European that the first digit, 1, represents Unity, which Qabalists call 'the Crown', or Primal Will. The second digit is that great mystery number, 3, full of meaning even for exoteric Christians and even more important in Qabalah and alchemy. The third digit, 7, Qabalists call 'Victory', and it has so many occult meanings that one might write a large book on this one number. The last digit, 8, is called 'Splendor' in the Qabalah and is a number associated with Hermes, the reputed founder of alchemy, as well as with Christ."* [True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, p. 45]

### [be-Ashtaroth](/keys/BOShThRVTh) - בעשתרות
Ashtaroth, the name of a Sidonian deity, and of a place East of the Jordan -- Asharoth, Astaroth. From a root meaning "flock" or "increase". [Joshua 9:10](http://biblehub.com/joshua/9-10.htm).

----

### [ayini IHVH el-tzaddiqim we'azniyaw el-sha'atam](/keys/OINI.IHVH.AL-TzDIQIM.VAZNIV.AL-ShVOThM)
**עיני יהוה אל־צדיקים ואזניו אל־שועתם**

[Psalm 34:15](http://biblehub.com/psalms/34-15.htm): *"The eyes of the LORD are upon the righteous, and his ears are open unto their cry."*

----

### [hatzilah mechereb napshi miyad-keleb yehidati](/keys/HTzILH.MChRB.NPShI.MID-KLB.IChIDThI)
**הצילה מחרב נפשי מיד־כלב יחידתי**

[Psalm 22:20](http://biblehub.com/psalms/22-20.htm): *"Deliver my soul from the sword; my darling from the power of the dog."*

----

### [vehemah ke-Adam awberu berith sham bagedu bi](/keys/VHMH.KADM.OBRV.BRITh.ShM.BGDV.BI)
**והמה כאדם עברו ברית שם בגדו בי**

[Hosea 6:7](http://biblehub.com/hosea/6-7.htm): *"But they like men have transgressed the covenant: there have they dealt treacherously against me."*

See note on [Matthew 24:25](http://biblehub.com/matthew/24-25.htm), below.

----

## Greek/Latin:

### [Euphranthete](/greek?word=euphranthhte) (Gr) - Εὐφράνθητε
Rejoice ye. [Romans 15:10](http://biblehub.com/romans/15-10.htm): *"And again he saith, Rejoice, ye Gentiles, with his people."*

### [makariotera](/greek?word=makariOtera) (gr) - μακαριωτέρα
More blessed, happier. [1 Corinthians 7:40](http://biblehub.com/1_corinthians/7-40.htm): *"But she is happier if she so abide, after my judgment"*

### [idou proeireka hymin](/greek?word=idou.proeirhka.umin) (Gr) - ἰδοὺ προείρηκα ὑμῖν
[Matthew 24:25](http://biblehub.com/matthew/24-25.htm): *"Behold, I have told you before."* This statement comes in the middle of Jesus' warning to his disciples to beware of false prophets.

### See Also

- Σ[52](52)
- [13](13)
- [4](4)
