## 1480 - One Thousand Four Hundred Eighty
> (8x185)

### [Shabo Shabathoth](/keys/ShBO.ShBThVTh) - שבע שבתות
> Literally, "7 Sabbaths." Seven periods of 7 days are [49](49) or 7x7. Related to the powers of Venus (Netzach), important in practical occultism. see [1010](1010), [470](470).

## Greek

### [Christos](/greek?word=) - Χριστός
> Christ, the anointed. One of the 7 names of Jesus besides his own, 8 in all. A technical term whereby even exoteric creeds designated the Logos *"by whom all things were made"* [John 1:3](http://biblehub.com/john/1-3.htm).

> The Logos is not only the Basis of manifestation, but also the power which is at work to bring the creative process to a successful conclusion. Thus Christ is called "our foundation," and is also the "Pinnacle Stone," the cap-stone of the pyramid symbolizing a new world order. Christ is called the "author and finisher of our faith" the basis and completion of the words alpha and Omega. They combine to [801](801), which reduces to 9. see [80](80), [324](324), [9](9), [1222](1222).

> Used in [1 Thessalonians 3:13](http://biblehub.com/1_thessalonians/3-13.htm), it implies the completeness which is one of the ideas inseparable form the meaning of the letter 9. see [644](644), [8](8), [1768](1768), [800](800), [656](656), [1408](1408), [971](971), [1844](1844), [1988](1988), [888](888).

### [Ho Pandocheus](/greek?word=o+pandocheus) (Gr) - ο πανδοχευς
> The host. Used in [Luke 10:35](http://biblehub.com/luke/10-35.htm), though not with the same spelling as in the Greek original. The original designates the host of the inn mentioned in the parable of the Good Samaritan. The host of the inn is a symbol of the sheltering and projecting power which offers its aid and comfort to all who are travellers on the way of return.

### [Telesphoros](/greek?word=) (Gr) - Τελεσφόρος
> Ripener, perfecter, finisher.

> *"In ancient Greek religion, Telesphorus (Greek: Τελεσφόρος Telesphoros) was a son of Asclepius. He frequently accompanied his sister, Hygieia. He was a dwarf whose head was always covered with a cowl hood or cap. He symbolized recovery from illness, as his name means 'the accomplisher' or 'bringer of completion' in Greek."* [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Telesphorus_%28mythology%29)

### [Huios:Kurios](/greek?word=uios.kurios) (Gr) - υιος:κύριος
> Son:Lord. A combination of the 2 names given to the Christos, throughout the New Testament.

### [Mathesis Sphairas](/greek?word=mathhsis.sphairas) (Gr) - Μαθησις Σφαιρας
> Doctrine of the Sphere.

### [lithos trisepapeiros](/greek?word=lithos+trisepapeiros) (Gr) - λιθος τρισεπαπειρος
> Stone of the 3 boundless dimensions. *"That these are all appropriate description of the mystical Christos is evident. But they are also mentioned directly in the Fama, which proclaims a new philosophy which it compares to a globe or circle ('the axiomata, which he know would direct them, like a globe or circle'), so that it is truly a Doctrine of the Sphere. This doctrine is hidden in a vault and the open door of the vault is compared to a door which shall be opened in Europe. And the whole secret doctrine is summed up in the occult meaning of the cube, or stone of 3 boundless dimensions."* [True and Invisible, p. 121-122]. see [2368](2368) Greek.
